Health Law and Ethics
Firearms and Health: The Right to Be
Armed with Accurate Information
about the Second Amendment
Jon S. Vemick, JD, and Stephen P. Teret, JD, MPH
Introduction
In perhaps no other area of injury
prevention has an organized campaign of
misinformation played a greater role in
chilling needed interventions than in efforts
to control firearm injuries. One important
component of that campaign is the
attempt by the National Rifle Association
(NRA) and its allies to portray the Second
Amendment to the US Constitution as a
significant obstacle to effective gun control
legislation. It is not.
By any measure, injuries caused by
firearms represent a public health problem
of enormous and tragic proportions. Firearms
are involved in about 34 000 deaths
annually in the United States, ranking second
only to motor vehicles as a cause of
fatal injury.1 Recently, in some states the
number of gun deaths has even surpassed
the number of motor vehicle deaths.2 In
addition, in 1985, there were an estimated
236 000 nonfatal firearm injuries, with a
total lifetime cost of more than $14.4 billion.3
Black Americans are at particular
risk for firearm mortality. Among Black
males aged 15 through 34 years, firearms
are the leading cause of death.4
In an effort to respond to this epidemic
of gun violence, numerous federal,
state, and local laws have been enacted,
limiting access to firearms for at least
some categories of individuals and types
of weapons.5 A number of research studies
have demonstrated the effectiveness of
selected gun control laws.6,7 Faced with
the grim fatality statistics and encouraged
by modest (thus far) legislative successes,
public health professionals and others
have advocated improved coordination
and enforcement of existing laws as well
as the adoption of new, more restrictive
legislation.8
Opponents of existing and proposed
laws, including the NRA, Gun Owners of
America, and the Second Amendment
Foundation, routinely argue that the Second
Amendment to the Constitution
grants an unfettered right to individuals to
"keep and bear arms," thus rendering any
gun control proposal unconstitutional. In
fact, one such group, in opposing a ban on
assault rifles, argued that "[i]t is precisely
the AK-47's, Uzi's, and other civilian versions
of military guns that are most clearly
secured by the right to keep and bear
arms."9
The Second Amendment
In its entirety, the Second Amendment
states: "Awell regulated Militia, being
necessary to the security of a free
State, the right of the people to keep and
bear Arms, shall not be infringed." The
NRA and others have descnbed this language
as a "straightforward statement affirming
the people's right to possess firearms."10
Further, in an effort to advocate
their own interpretation of the Amendment's
important militia clause, they have
claimed that "the perception that the Second
Amendment guarantees a collective
rather than an individual right is totally
inaccurate"'10 and that "the term 'well regulated'
is an expression of one objective to
be achieved by the exercise of the right,
not a limitation on the right to keep and
bear arms."" (In addition, adorning the
NRA's Washington headquarters is the
language: "The right of the people to keep
and bear Arms shall not be infringed."
Reference to the opening "militia" clause
The authors are with The Johns Hopkins
School of Public Health Injury Prevention Center,
Baltimore, Md.
Requests for reprints should be sent to Jon
S. Vernick, JD, The Johns Hopkins University
Injury Prevention Center, 624 N Broadway,
Baltimore, MD 21205.
American Journal of Public Health 1773
Health IAw and Ethics
is omitted.) Statements like this, backed
by forceful, well-funded lobbying and
public relations efforts (but not by evidence),
can act as a powerful deterrent to
the design and implementation ofeffective
gun control policy. Public health advocates
should understand why these arguments
are without merit.
As is true ofnearly every provision of
the Constitution, the precise meaning of
the Second Amendment has generated
considerable scholarly debate.'2"13 That
debate often focuses on deternining the
original intent of the framers in adopting
the Amendment. Such discussions may
have merit as academic exercises or as
efforts to persuade persons and courts that
the Amendment's language should be
given a particular interpretation, but they
do not reveal its current meaning or its
effect on the constitutionality of gun control
laws.
Under the American rule of adherence
to precedent (known as stare decisis),
the meaning of any particular constitutional
provision is fixed by the body of
case law, especially Supreme Court opinions,
interpreting that provision. In a very
practical sense, therefore, at any given
time, a law means precisely what the
courts have said it means. Since the late
1800s, courts have consistently provided
the Second Amendment with an interpretation
that poses no obstacle to effective
gun control legislation at the federal, state,
or local levels.
Courts have focused on two main issues
in their examination of the Second
Amendment. The first question is whether
the Amendment proscribes only acts of
Congress at the federal level or whether it
also governs state and local laws. The second
question is whether the Amendment
protects only a "collective right" to bear
arms, prohibiting only those laws that interfere
with state militias, or whether it
more broadly protects an "individual
right," thereby invalidating laws that restrict
individuals from keeping and bearing
any weapon, even without some
meaningful militia connection.
Fedal vs State Applicaton
The initial Supreme Court case interpreting
the meaning of the Second
Amendment addressed the first of these
questions. In United States v Cnrikshank
(1876), the Supreme Court ruled that "the
Second Amendment declares that [the
right to keep and bear arms] shall not be
infringed; but this means no more than it
shall not be infringed by Congress."''4
Thus the Amendment would apply to federal
but not state laws.
Ten years later, the Supreme Court
again addressed the question of federal vs
state application of the Second Amendment
in its Presser v IlliMois decision.'5
Illinois had passed a law forbidding, in
pertinent part, "any body of men ... to
drill or parade with arms in any city or
town" within the state without a license
from the governor. That same year, Herman
Presser marched through the streets
of Chicago at the head of a parade organized
by a group called theLehrund Wehr
Verein (Teaching and Defense Society),
without having obtained a governor's permit.
Presser carried a cavahy sword; his
400 men bore rifles. Presser was found
guilty of violating Illinois law, and was
fined $10.
On appeal Presser argued, in part,
that the Illinois law violated the Second
Amendment by interfering with the "right
to bear arms." The Supreme Court upheld
the constitutionality of the Illinois law and
affirmed Presser's conviction. The Court
held that the Second Amendment "has no
other effect than to restrict the powers of
the National Government," ratifying its
Cnirkshank decision. Under the reasoning
of the Presser and Cruikshank decisions,
therefore, state governments are free to
enact gun control laws, consistent with
their recognized "police power" to protect
public health and welfare, unimpeded
by the Second Amendment.
Most of the liberties guaranteed by the
nrst 10 constitutional amendments (the Bill
of Rights), hlberties like freeom of speech
and the press, were also initially seen as applicable
only to the federal government. In
the years since Pmysei, however, the Supreme
Court began to selectively "incorporate"
only those provisions of the Bill of
Rights that it deemed fundamental to the
American systmoflaw into the Fourteenth
Amendment's more general guarantee of
"due process," which does apply to state
acfions. As a result of this selective incorporation,
today nearly all of the amendments
in the Bill of Rights are protected
against state government infringement as
well.'6 The Second Amendment, however,
hasneverbeensoincorporated, andPressr
remains the Supreme Court's latestword on
the federal vs state application of the
Amendment. (In addition to the Second
Amendment, those provisions of the Bill
of Rights that have not been "incorporated"
include the Third Amendment, the
Fifth Amendment clause requiring a grand
jury indictment for criniinal prosecutions,
and the Seventh Amendment.)
Under the doctrine of stare decisis,
lower federal courts have conformed to
the holding of the Presser case. One recent
example is Fresno Rifle and Pistol
Club, Inc v Van deKamp, first decided by
a Calfornia federal district court in 1990
and then affirmed on appeal by the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals in May 1992.17
TheFremso case tested the validity of California's
Assault Weapons Control Act of
1989.18 This law, enacted in the aftermath
of the Stockton, Calif, playground slayings,
proscnbed the manufacture, sale,
and possession of certain firearms that
were considered to be assault weapons.
Local firearm owners and gun manufacturers
were the plaintiffs who challenged
the law's constitutionality. Theywere represented
in court by the leading attorneyadvocates
for the US progun organizations.
The district court held that the California
statute did not violate the Second
Amendment in that the Amendment
"stays the hand of the National government
only." On appeal, the court of appeals,
in affirming the lower court, confirmed
that the Second Amendment is
inapplicable to the states, holding that
"[u]ntil such time as Cruikshank and
Presser are overturned, the Second
Amendment limits only federal action."
The Fremsno case also presents an opportunity
to examine several of the plaintiffs'
(and, derivatively, the NRA's) other
arguments regarding the federal vs state
application of the Second Amendment. In
an effort to avoid the holdings ofthe Cnikshank
and Presser cases, the plaintiffs argued
that the Fourteenth Amendment automatically
incorporates every provision
of the Bill of Rights, whether or not the
Supreme Court has specifically examined
that particular guarantee. In summarily rejecting
this argument, the Fresno court
recognized that this theory of "total incorporation"
has never been accepted by the
Supreme Court, which relies instead on
the process of "selective incorporation"
descnbed above.
Another argument advanced by the
plaintiffs in Fresno was based on the Supreme
Court's recent opinion in United
States v Verdugo-Urnuidez,;9 a case involving
the Fourth Amendment's right of
"the people" to be free from unreasonable
or warrantless searches and seizures.20
The plaintiffs in Fresno claimed that the
Court's opinion in Verdugo-Urquidez also
implied that the Second Amendment must
grant to "the people" an individual right to
keep and bear arms protected from state
infringement. Explicitly declining to ex-
1774 American Journal of Public Health December 1993, Vol. 83, No. 12
Health LAw and Ethics
plore the question of an individual right to
bear arms, the Fresno court wrote instead:
Even if Verdugo-Unqddez can be read
to support the proposition that each of
the amendments which speaks of a right
of "the people" guarantees an individual
right, the question remains against
whom these rights may be asserted.
Nothing in Verdugo-Urquidez upsets
the Court's holding in CnAikshank and
Presser that the Second Amendment
rights, whatever their scope, can be asserted
only against the federal government.
Therefore, it is for the Supreme
Court, not us, to revisit the reach of the
SecondAmendment.17 [Emphasis in the
original]
The Fresno case will not serve as the
vehicle for any potential reassessment of
the Second Amendment. In November
1992 the NRA (and other plaintiffs) allowed
the Supreme Court's filing deadline
for appellate review to lapse, thereby leaving
the court of appeals' decision as the
last word in the case.
Collive vs Individual Rght
If court interpretations of the Second
Amendment present no obstacle to state or
local gun control, the logical remaining issue
is the amendment's effect on federal
firearms legislation. In 1939, the Supreme
Court had an opportunity to address this
question. Primarily in an effort to combat
violence perpetrated by orgnized crime,
Congrss had enacted the National Firearms
Act of 1934. The Act, which applied
principally to sawed-off shotguns and machine
guns, provided that such firearms
could not be tansported in interstate commerce
without first being registered and
subjected toa$200tax. In 1938, JackMiller
and Frank Layton transported a sawed-off
shotgun from Oklahoma to Arkansas without
registering the gun or paying the tax.
They were charged with violating the National
Firearms Act. In federal district
court in Arkansas they argued that the Act
was an unconstitutional violation of the
Second Amendment bythe federal government,
and the court agreed. The United
States appealed the case, and in United
StatesvMMilerthe Supreme Courtreversed
the lower Court's judgment.21 Interpreting
the language of the opening "militia"
clause of the Amendment, the Supreme
Court held in essence that no individual
right to keep and bear arms was granted,
but only a collective right having "some
reasonable relationship to the preservation
or efficiency of a well regulated militia."
Since the Court could find no state militia
connection for Miller and Layton's assertion
of a Second Amendment right, the
constitutionality of the National Firearms
Act (and of their ciminal indictment) was
upheld.
The Supreme Court has not felt compelled
to revisit the Second Amendment
directly since the MiAler case. In 1980, in
passing, the Court did apply theMillertest
of "reasonable militia relationship" to the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
Act of 1968, upholding the Act's constitutionality.22
Numerous lower federal
courts, however, have upheld a variety of
gun control laws, demonstrating the continuing
vitality of the Miler decision.
One such case involved a Kansas
federal court's 1977 criminal conviction of
Ted Oakes for possession of an unregistered
machine gun in violation of federal
law. Oakes had sold the machine gun to an
undercover agent of the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms and was in
need of a strong argument that his prosecution
was impermissible. Oakes first
pointed out that the Kansas constitution
provides that the state militia includes all
"able-bodied male citizens between the
ages of twenty-one and forty-five years"
and that he fell within this age range. To
bolster his argument, Oakes also noted
that he was a member of a registered militia-type
organization known as Posse
Comitatus. These militia connections, he
argued, fit the Miller test for Second
Amendment protection: the gun's possession
or use had some reasonable relationship
to the preservation and efficiency of
the state militia.
The court rejected Oakes's argument.
In United States v Oakes, the court
ofappeals held that "to apply the [Second]
Amendment so as to guarantee [Oakes's]
right to keep an unregistered firearm
which has not been shown to have any
connection to the militia, merely because
he is technically a member of the Kansas
militia, would be unjustifiable in terms of
either logic or policy."2' The court was
even less impressed with Oakes's paramilitary
membership. Under the rationale
of this decision, federal laws affecting the
ownership of guns would not be invalidated
absent a much more substantial connection
to the state militia than Oakes had
asserted.
Ste Conutions
Advocates seelkng to use law to improve
the public's health should recoguize
that the validity of any state law must also
be tested against the commands of that
state's constitution. An examination ofthe
language of each state's constitutional
provisions related to firearm possession is
beyond the scope ofthis article, but a brief
case discussion will illustrate that even facially
broad state constitutional guarantees
may not impede reasonable firearms
regulation.
In 1987, the people of the state of
Maine voted to amend their state constitution
to provide that "[e]very citizen has
a right to keep and bear arms; and this
right shall never be questioned. "24 Prior to
its amendment, that language had included
the qualiWing phrase "for the common
defense." This phrase was deleted
with the apparent intention of establishing,
at the state level, a new individual
right to bear arms rather than the previous
collective right.25
Edward Brown was a Maine citizen
and a convicted felon, having been convicted
of continuing to drive his car after
his license had been revoked. Existing
Maine law prohibited felons from possessing
firearms without a permit3m Brown
was indicted forviolating this law. At trial,
Brown argued that his indictment was an
unconstitutional violation of Maine's new
constitutional provision, and the superior
court agreed, dismissing that portion of
the indictment. The state appealed the decision,
and in State v Brown the Supreme
Judicial Court of Maine (the state's highest
court) reversed the lower court's decision.27
To analyze Brown's argument, the
court examined two issues: (1) Does
Maine's new constitutional amendment
create an absolute right to keep and bear
arms? and (2) If not, and some regulation
is permissible, does Maine's regulation of
firearms possession by convicted felons
nevertheless exceed its "police powers"
to protect the public's health and safety?
To answer the first question, the court
looked to the history of the enactment of
the amendment, and also employed a
"common sense view" of that context. In
concluding that no absolute right to keep
and bear arms was granted, the court said
that "[p]lainly, the people of Maine never
intended that an inmate at Maine State
Prison, or a patient at a mental hospital
would have an absolute right to possess a
firearn."
To complete its analysis, the court
next considered the permissible scope of
the state's police power to regulate firearms.
Following both state and federal
precedents, the court determined that
such regulation was permissible if it was
reasonably related to a legitimate "police
December 1993, Vol. 83, No. 12 American Joumal of Public Health 1775
Health La and Ethics
power" goal of protecting the public
health and safety. TheBrown court had no
trouble, therefore, in deciding that "[o]ne
who has committed any felony has displayed
a degree of lawlessness that makes
it entirely reasonable for the legislature,
concemed for the safety of the public it
represents, to want to keep firearms out of
the hands of such a person."
Thus, even Maine's "individual"
right to keep and bear arms was subject to
reasonable regulation to further the public
health and safety.
Quid v Vidge ofMoffon
Grove
A final case, illustrating many of the
legal principles encompassed by the Second
Amendment and by state constitutions,
involved a sweeping gun control law
enacted by the Village of Morton Grove,
Ill, in 1981. That law prohibited all handgun
ownership within the city limits, subject
to certain exceptions for law enforcement
officials and gun collectors.28Almost
immediately, Victor Quilici and several
other gun owners challenged the law's
constitutionality under the Illinois and federal
constitutions.
In Quilici v Idlage ofMorton Grove,
the federal court of appeals (for the Seventh
Circuit), affinning a lower district
court opinion, upheld the Morton Grove
law under both the federal and state constitutions.29
The Quic court began its Illinois
constitutional analysis with the language
of that state's analog to the federal
Second Amendment: "Subject only to the
police power, the right of the individual
citizen to keep and bear arms shall not be
infringed."30 The plaintiffs claimed that
this language forbade Morton Grove from
enacting a ban on all handguns. Relying
upon Illinois case law and the proceedings
of the Illinois constitutional convention,
the court rejected the plaintiffs' argument.
Although the court determined that handguns
belonged to the class ofweapons protected
by the Illinois Constitution, they
concluded that "the right to keep and bear
arms in Illinois is so limited by the police
power that a ban on handguns does not
violate that right." In fact, the court said
that only an absolute ban on all firearms
would be prohibited.
With regard to the federal Constitution,
once again the plaintiffs argued that
the Second Amendment rendered Morton
Grove's new law invalid. Specifically,
they argued that the Presser case should
be read as denying a state the right to regulate
firearms, and that Miler, linking any
"right" to bear arms only to the state militia,
was in essence "wrongly decided and
should be overruled."
After reviewing the plaintiffs' arguments,
the Quici court upheld the constitutionality
of the Morton Grove law.
Plainlywondering how the plaintiffs could
"assert that Presser supports the theory
that the Second Amendment right to keep
and bear arms is a fundamental right
which the state cannot regulate," when
the Supreme Court's opinion declares precisely
the opposite, the court easily rejected
this portion of their argument. Although
the Quci court's adherence to
Presser's holding-that the Second
Amendment applies only to the federal
govenmment-was enough to decide the
case, it went on to briefly discuss the
Miller argument as well. The court recognized
that Miller was controlling precedent
and reminded the litigants that arguments
to overrule a Supreme Court case
"have no place before this court."
Contutional Gun Contml
Las
For health advocates interested in
translating legal theory into practice, a
more pragmatic question arises: Given the
Supreme Court cases that have been discussed,
what specific ypes of gun control
legislation are constitutionallypemissible?
At the state level, the issue is relatively
straightforward. The Cnuikshank
and Presser cases hold that the Second
Amendment is inapplicable to state action,
so that almost any tpe of gun law
enacted by a state or locality would fall
outside the ambit of the Amendment.
Thus laws that affect gun buyers, ranging
from the one-gun-per-month purchase restriction
recently adopted in Virginia to a
complete ban on the ownership of handguns,
as in Morton Grove, are all permissible
under the federal constitution. Similarly
insulated from a successful Second
Amendment challenge are state laws that
would regulate the design, performance,
or manufacture of guns themselves, such
as South Carolina's law prohibiting the
sale of handguns with a melting point of
less than 8000F,31 or Maryland's law prohlbiting
the manufacture and sale of handguns
that have not received the specific
approval of a government board32 (both
laws in an effort to outlaw cheaply made
"Saturday night specials").
At the federal level, the Supreme
Court's decision inMillermeans that only
those laws that interfere with the preservation
or efficiency of state militias would
be invalid under the Second Amendment.
Since this test must be applied on a caseby-case
basis, determining whether a specific
federal law would meet the test is
somewhat more speculative than with
state laws. Clearly, the federal government
could not pass a law forbidding firearms
use by a state's militia or National
Guard, in furtherance of its militia functions.
Other proposed or enacted laws,
however, such as federal prohibitions on
firearms ownership by convicted felons,33
national gun purchase waiting periods, or
laws requiring engineering modifications
of guns themselves to make them safer, all
would survive Second Amendment scrutiny.
Conclsions
The Quilci court's admonishment to
those challenging the Morton Grove law,
that legal arguments to overrule Supreme
Court precedent have no place other than
in the Supreme Court itself (or perhaps at
the legislative level), also provides an important
lesson for public health professionals.
Today, the meaning ofthe Second
Amendment is well settled: it does not apply
to state action, and any federal "right
to bear arms" must be closely linked to
some militia purpose. In fact, every state
and the federal government have a number
of different laws regulating the manufacture,
sale, or use of firearms, offering
further, more practical evidence of the inapplicability
ofthe Second Amendment to
state laws.34"35
At some time in the future the Supreme
Court may, in fact, overrule
Presser and Miler and grant to the NRA
and others the interpretation of the Second
Amendment they seek. Until that
time, however, public health advocates
should understand that the Second
Amendment poses no real obstacle to the
implementation of even broad gun control
legislation. [1
Acknowledgments
The authors gratefully acknowledge the advice
and assistance of Dr Garen Wintemute in the
preparation of this paper.
References
1. Baker SP, O'Neill B, Ginsburg MJ, Li G.
The Injury Fact Book 2nd ed. New York,
NY: Oxford University Press; 1992:149.
2. Centers for Disease Control. Firearm-related
deaths-Louiisiana and Texas, 1970-
1990.AMLR 1992;41:213-215,221.
3. Rice DP, MacKenzie ElJ, et al. Cost ofIn-
1776 American Journal of Public Health December 1993, Vol. 83, No. 12
lh and Ethics
jury in the United States:A Report to Congress.
San Francisco, Calif: Institute for
Health and Aging, University ofCalifornia,
and Injury Prevention Center, The Johns
Hopkins University; 1989:50.
4. Fingerhut LA, Kleinman JC, Godfrey E,
Rosenberg H. Firearm mortality among
children, youth and young adults 1-34
years of age, trends and current status:
United States, 1979-1988.Month Vatal Stat
Rep. 1991;39(suppl 11):1-14.
5. State Laws and Published OrdircesFuwams.
Washington, DC: US Dept of
the Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco
and Firearms; 1990. BATF publication
P5300.5.
6. Loftin C, McDowall D, Wiersema B, Cottey
TJ. Effects of restrictive licensing of
handguns on homiade and suicide in the
District of Columbia. NEnglJMed 1991;
325:1615-1620.
7. Sloan JH, Kellermann AL, Reay DT, et al.
Handgun regulations, crime, assaults, and
homicide: a tale of two cities. N Engl J
Med 1988;319:1256-1262.
8. National Committee for Injury Prevention
and Control. I#ury Preveion. Meeting
the Challenge. New York, NY: Oxford
University Press; 1989:264-266.
9. Kopel DB. Bans on Sermi-Automatics: Unconstituional
Hysteria. Bellevue, Wash:
Second Amendment Foundation; undated.
10. Ten Myths about Gun ControL Washington,
DC: National Rifle Association; 1984:
12-14.
11. Gottlieb AM. The Rights of Gun Owners.
Bellevue, Wash: Merril Press; 1991:8-9.
12. Kates DB. Handgun prohibition and the
original meaning of the Second Amendment.
Mich Law Rev. 1983;82:204.
13. Jackson MH. Handgun control: constitutional
and critically needed. NC Central
LawJ. 1977;8:867.
14. United States v Cnikshank 92 US 542
(1876).
15. Presser v Iiois, 116 US 252 (1886).
16. Nowak JE, Rotunda RD. Constitutional
Law. 4th ed. St. Paul, Minn: West Publishing
Company; 1991:385-388.
17. Fresno Rife and Pistol Club Inc v Van de
Kamp, 746 F Supp 1415 (ED Cal 1990),
aff'd, 965 F2d 773 (9th Cir 1992).
18. California Penal Code §§ 12275-12290.
19. U.S. v Verdugo-Urquidez, 494 US 259
(1990).
20. US Constitution, amend 4.
21. United States v Milkr, 307 US 174 (1939).
22. Lewis v United States, 445 US 55 (1980).
23. United States v Oakes, 564 F2d 384 (10th
Cir 1977), cert denied 435 US 926 (1978).
24. Maine Constitution, article I, § 16.
25. State v Fnel4 508 A2d 123 (Me 1986).
26. Maine Revised Statutes Annotated, title
15, § 393(1).
27. State v Brown, 571 A2d 816 (Me 1990).
28. Village of Morton Grove, Illinois, Ordinance
81-11, An Ordinance Regulating the
Possession of Firearms and Other Dangerous
Weapons (1981).
29. Quiici v Vllage ofMorton Grove, 532 F
Supp 1169 (ND II 1981), affd, 695 F2d 261
(7th Cir 1982), cert denied, 464 US 863
(1983).
30. Illinois Constitution, article I, § 22.
31. SC Code Ann § 23-31-180 (Law Co-op
1991).
32. Teret SP, Alexander GR, Bailey LA. The
passage of Maryland's gun law: data and
advocacy for injury prevention. J Public
Health Poliy. 1990;11:26-38.
33. Cody v United States, 460 F2d 34 (8th Cir
1972), cert denied, 409 US 1010 (1972),
reh'g denied, 529 F2d 564.
34. State Laws and Pubished OrdinancesFireamnn.
19th ed. Washington, DC: US
Dept of Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco
and Firearms 1989. BATF P5300.5.
35. ChristoffelT, TeretSP. Protecting the public:
legal issues in injury prevention. New
York, NY: Oxford University Press; 1993.
December 1993, Vol. 83, No. 12 American Journal of Public Health 1777