Fordham Law Review
Volume 73 | Issue 2 Article 2
2004
Putting the Gun Control Debate in Social
Perspective
Erwin Chemerinsky
This Article is brought to you for free and open access by FLASH: The Fordham Law Archive of Scholarship and History. It has been accepted for
inclusion in Fordham Law Review by an authorized editor of FLASH: The Fordham Law Archive of Scholarship and History. For more information,
please contact tmelnick@law.fordham.edu.
Recommended Citation
Erwin Chemerinsky, Putting the Gun Control Debate in Social Perspective , 73 Fordham L. Rev. 477 (2004).
Available at: http://ir.lawnet.fordham.edu/flr/vol73/iss2/2
KEYNOTE ADDRESS
PUTTING THE GUN CONTROL DEBATE IN
SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE
Erwin Chemerinsky*
INTRODUCTION
Imagine that it is the year 2087. On the occasion of the tricentennial
celebration of the Constitution, the United States calls a
constitutional convention to draft a new document for America's
fourth century. The delegates meet in Philadelphia as they did three
centuries earlier. There is universal agreement among the delegates
that the new constitution should contain a statement of fundamental
individual rights. Assuming that social attitudes about firearms are
the same as today, will the new constitution contain an amendment
about the right of individuals to bear arms? If there were a
constitutional convention now, would a provision like the Second
Amendment remain?
Putting the issue this way requires that the issue of guns be put in a
larger social and political context. The reality, of course, is that
conservatives will favor such an amendment and liberals will oppose
it. There will be a geographic divide, with more rural residents
wanting such an amendment, and more urban residents opposing it.
There will be a gender divide, with more men than women wanting
constitutional protection for gun ownership.
The political context is ironic. Conservatives, who generally favor
more narrow interpretations of individual rights, urge a broad view of
the Second Amendment, and for progressives it is just the opposite.
John Ashcroft, who certainly has taken a very restrictive view of the
protections of Bill of Rights provisions, such as the First and Fourth
Amendment, takes an expansive approach to the Second
Amendment) But for liberals, just the opposite is true; their usually
* Alston & Bird Professor of Law, Duke Law School. I want to thank Sara Phillips
for her excellent research assistance. This Essay originated as my keynote address at
Fordham Law School's Symposium on the Second Amendment sponsored by the
John Glenn Institute of Ohio State University.
1. See Letter from John Ashcroft, United States Attorney General, to James J.
Baker, Executive Director, Institute for Legislative Action, National Rifle
FORDHAM LAW REVIEW
broad view of individual liberties does not include the Second
Amendment.
It is now familiar that liberals and conservatives have very different
views about what the Second Amendment means.2 The former argue
that it is about "collective rights"; that the Second Amendment was
meant only to limit the ability of Congress to regulate firearms in a
way that would keep state governments from protecting themselves.
The latter contend that the Second Amendment is about an
"individual right": protecting the right of individuals to have guns. 3
Ultimately, the constitutional convention in 2087 must choose
between these two views. More specifically, it will have to decide
whether to put any provision regarding guns in the new constitution.
Inescapably, this choice will require deciding whether the constitution
should safeguard a right of individuals that would limit the ability of
the government to engage in gun control.
I find it difficult to predict what a constitutional convention would
do on this issue. Probably, the outcome would depend on the political
composition of the body and perhaps what deals need to be struck in
order to produce a document. But I also find it hard to predict what
the United States Supreme Court ultimately will do when it must
decide the meaning of the Second Amendment.4
In this Essay, I want to make three points about this choice,
whether it is faced at a mythical constitutional convention or in the
Supreme Court. First, ultimately the choice between these competing
theories is not about constitutional theory or evidence; it is a political
and value choice. Second, the political and value choice must be
understood in a cultural context. But third, focusing on the politics
and culture can obscure the legal issues regarding gun control that are
likely to arise and be faced by courts.
Association (May 17, 2001), reprinted in Mathew S. Nosanchuk, The Embarrassing
Interpretation of the Second Amendment, 29 N. Ky. L. Rev. 705, 799-800 (2002).
2. See, e.g., Symposium on the Second Amendment: Fresh Looks, 76 Chi.-Kent
L. Rev. 3 (2000) (containing articles describing both views).
3. Obviously, there are other theories and nuanced and sophisticated variations
of these arguments. For example, at this Symposium, Professor Saul Cornell offered
a different approach, suggesting that the Second Amendment be understood as being
about the right of individuals to have guns for service in the militia. See Saul Cornell
& Nathan DeDino, A Well-Regulated Right: The Early American Origins of Gun
Control, 73 Fordham L. Rev. 487 (2004).
4. Actually, I predict that the Court will avoid the choice between the individual
and the collective rights views by holding that under either view gun control laws can
be upheld. Even if the Second Amendment is interpreted from the individual rights
perspective, that does not mean that there is an absolute right. The Supreme Court
could uphold virtually all gun control laws by concluding that they serve a sufficiently
important social interest as to be constitutional under either approach to the Second
Amendment. As described infra in Part III, the Court may well be able to avoid a
choice between the two views of the Second Amendment by deciding that the Second
Amendment is not incorporated and does not apply to state and local governments,
and that federal gun control laws only need meet rational basis review.
[Vol. 73
GUN CONTROL DEBATE
My focus is on the debate over the meaning of the Second
Amendment. As a matter of legal and political rhetoric, it is
fascinating and unlike any other area of constitutional law. I do not
seek to take and defend a position in this debate; there already has
been so much written on both sides, I doubt I have anything to add in
that regard. But as a scholar who has followed this literature closely,
without ever writing on the topic, I want to offer a few thoughts on the
gun control debate.
I. INTERPRETING THE SECOND AMENDMENT
When preparing my Constitutional Law casebook,5 I wanted to
include material on the Second Amendment. This issue is an
important constitutional one and students are interested in it, but it
generally was given no attention in constitutional law casebooks. Still,
I was unsure about what to include or where to place it in the book.
The last Supreme Court decision on the Second Amendment, United
States v. Miller,6 was in 1939 and its discussion is relatively brief. After
a lot of thought, I decided to use the Second Amendment as an
illustration of the debate over constitutional interpretation.
Both sides of the debate over the Second Amendment have
arguments based on the constitution's text, the framers' intent,
tradition, and social policy. One side emphasizes the preamble to the
Second Amendment, that it is about protecting a well-regulated
militia, while the other side stresses the latter part of the Amendment
concerning the right of individuals to keep and bear arms. Each side
has a strong argument of what the framers intended.7
The two sides of the debate disagree vehemently over the relevance
of social policy. Supporters of gun control and the collective rights
approach point to the human costs of guns. It has been estimated that
economically the cost of gun violence is on the border of $100 billion
per year.8 In 2002, 71.1% of murders,9 42.1% of robberies ° and 19%
of aggravated assaults" committed in the United States involved
firearms. In 2001, nearly 30,000 Americans died as a direct result of
5. Erwin Chemerinsky, Constitutional Law (2001).
6. 307 U.S. 174, 178 (1939).
7. Contrast the review of the history and intent of the Second Amendment in
United States v. Emerson, 270 F.3d 203 (5th Cir. 2001), reh"g en banc denied, 281 F.3d
1281 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 536 U.S. 907 (2002) (finding that history supports
the individual rights approach) with Silveira v. Lockyer, 328 F.3d 567 (9th Cir. 2003)
(finding that history supports the collective rights approach).
8. Jon S. Vernick et al., Technologies to Detect Concealed Weapons: Fourth
Amendment Limits on a New Public Health and Law Enforcement Tool, 31 J.L. Med.
& Ethics 567 (2003).
9. FBI, U.S. Dep't of Justice, Crime in the United States 22 (2002), at
http://www.fbi.gov/ucr/cius-02/pdf/2section2.pdf. There were 16,204 incidents of
murder in 2002. Id. at 19.
10. Id. at 32. The total number of robberies was 420,637. Id. at 31.
11. Id. at 38. The total number of aggravated assaults was 894,348. Id. at 37.
2004]
FORDHAM LAW REVIEW
gunfire, whether by murder, suicide, or accident. 12 An additional
63,012 Americans were injured by firearms and 1433 youths under the
age of 18 were killed by firearms.13
But opponents of gun control dismiss the relevance of these
statistics in determining the meaning of the Second Amendment.
They argue that the text and framers' intent, and not social policy,
should control constitutional interpretation. Also, of course, they will
dispute whether gun control is likely to make any difference as to
these harms. 4
Ultimately, there are persuasive arguments on both sides, on every
level, over the meaning of the Second Amendment.15 I thus have
found that the Second Amendment works very well as a vehicle for
discussing the methods of constitutional interpretation. Inevitably,
there is a spirited discussion among students who are fairly evenly
divided between the two camps, with each side making the
appropriate arguments to support their position.
Consistently, I find that the more liberal students defend the
individual rights approach to the Second Amendment and the more
conservative students advocate the collective rights approach.
Discussion rarely, if ever, changes anyone's mind.
Not surprisingly, this is no different for judges. The Fifth Circuit
panel that decided United States v. Emerson16 was, by any measure,
more conservative than the Ninth Circuit panel which decided Silveira
v. Lockyer.17 As would be expected, the Fifth Circuit adopted the
individual rights approach and the Ninth Circuit took the collective
rights view. Both panels conscientiously looked at all available
material, but the choice of the theory was seemingly driven by
underlying ideology. Nor is it surprising that the one Justice on the
current Court who has signaled his view on the Second Amendment is
Justice Thomas, likely the most conservative member of the Court. s
12. Nat'l Ctr. For Injury Prevention and Control, Ctr. for Disease Control and
Prevention, Web-based Injury Statistics Query Reporting System (July 7, 2004),
available at http://www.cdc.gov/ncipc/wisqars.
13. Id.
14. See, e.g., Todd Barnet, Gun "Control" Laws Violate the Second Amendment
and May Lead to Higher Crime Rates, 63 Mo. L. Rev. 155 (1998).
15. There is truly voluminous literature debating the meaning of the Second
Amendment. For articles reflecting some of these views, see Sanford Levinson, The
Embarrassing Second Amendment, 99 Yale L.J. 637 (1989); Glenn Harlan Reynolds,
A Critical Guide to the Second Amendment, 62 Tenn. L. Rev. 461 (1995); and David
Yassky, The Second Amendment: Structure, History, and Constitutional Change, 99
Mich. L. Rev. 588 (2000).
16. 270 F.3d 203 (5th Cir. 2001). reh'g en banc denied, 281 F.3d 1281 (5th Cir.
2001). cert. denied. 536 U.S. 907 (2002).
17. 312 F.3d 1052 (9th Cir. 2002).
18. See Printz v. United States, 521 U.S. 898, 936-39 (1997) (Thomas, J.,
concurring).
[Vol. 73
GUN CONTROL DEBATE
The point is that the meaning of the Second Amendment is not
determined by the application of constitutional theory or interpretive
methodologies. It is a product entirely of the values and politics of the
individual. This does not deny that legal arguments are made in terms
of text, framers' intent, tradition, and social policy. Rather, in an area
such as this, with strong arguments and views on each side, a judge or
scholar inevitably will come to a conclusion and then justify it based
on the ample available material. The choice is going to depend on the
ideology of the interpreter. This phenomenon, of course, is not
unique to the Second Amendment. But the Second Amendment is an
excellent illustration of the difference between discovery and
justification; how people discover their views is quite different from
how those views are justified. This is true for both sides of the Second
Amendment debate: each side, based on its political ideology, has a
position and each is defended based on all available materials. In the
hypothetical constitutional convention or in the Supreme Court or for
any person trying to decide, whether there is an individual right to
have guns is a value choice; it is not a decision that can be made by
applying constitutional theories or interpretive methodologies.
II. THE CULTURAL CONTEXT
The political and value choice described above must be understood
in the larger cultural context. Society is obviously deeply divided over
the issue of gun control and the meaning of the Second Amendment.
There appears to be no bridge between the two sides. Those who
oppose gun control espouse a romantic individualism where guns are
part of individual freedom and the right of people to protect
themselves. Those who favor gun control stress the collective good
and the harms guns cause to society. These are radically different
visions.
But what is interesting and puzzling is why this divide developed;
what accounts for the differing visions? One possibility is that it is a
reflection of differences in personal experience. For example, some in
our society hunt, some abhor hunting; without question, the former
oppose gun control, while the latter favor it. For some, hunting is an
exhilarating hobby. For others, it is not a fair sport at all when one
side is an unarmed animal and the other is a hunter with a rifle with a
super-scope and the latest technology.
While this provides some of the explanation for the difference in
views about guns, it does not really account for why conservatives
consistently take the individual rights position, while progressives take
the collective rights approach. It is not clear why hunters would want
to protect weapons that never could be used for that purpose, such as
handguns or machine guns that would shred an animal. Nor does this
explain why gun control foes oppose strict background checks and
2004]
FORDHAM LAW REVIEW
registration; hunters would seemingly have no problem with this so
long as it allowed them to retain the guns they needed for hunting.
Nor does the likelihood that a person has been or might be a victim
of crime account for the difference. One might expect that those most
vulnerable to violent crimes-city dwellers, women-would be the
strongest opponents of gun control. Yet, the opposite is true as these
are groups that consistently favor laws restricting ownership of guns.
A second possible cultural explanation for the divide in attitudes
over firearms might be that it is based on the perceived need to
protect oneself from tyrannical government. A frequent theme in
anti-gun control literature is that a right to own guns is important so
that people can stage a revolution if necessary and oppose a tyrannical
government. Obviously, this argument has rhetorical appeal to some
in society; it expresses a rugged individualism where people can stand
up to the government, with arms if necessary.
But for those who don't share this perspective, the argument seems
silly. With the possible exception of the Civil War, never in the 217-
year history of the United States have people needed guns for this
purpose. If ever there were a truly tyrannical government in the
United States, it is highly questionable that individuals having their
own guns would make much difference. Interestingly, Robert Bork
put this best when he said: "The Second Amendment was designed to
allow states to defend themselves against a possibly tyrannical
national government. Now that the federal government has stealth
bombers and nuclear weapons, it is hard to imagine what people
would need to keep in the garage to serve that purpose."19 The
incredibly remote chance that guns might be helpful against a
tyrannical government hardly seems a reason to accept the
tremendous human costs of guns.
Also, I always have found an irony to this argument. One would
imagine that those who fear a tyrannical government would be most
likely to favor robust judicial protection of individual rights and equal
protection. Courts enforcing constitutional rights are one of the best
checks to prevent tyranny. But, of course, it is conservatives who
oppose gun control who also urge the most limited role for the courts
and the narrowest scope for individual rights."z
A third possible cultural explanation for differences of opinions
over guns is that it relates to perceived distrust in the government.
Slippery slope arguments play a critical role in gun control debates.
Those who take the individual rights approach oppose all forms of
government regulation of guns and frequently express their fear that
19. Robert H. Bork, Slouching Towards Gomorrah 166 note (1996).
20. Robert Bork, quoted above, obviously is an exception to this pattern, in that
he is a conservative who does not view the Second Amendment as protecting an
individual's right to have guns. Id.
[Vol. 73
GUN CONTROL DEBATE
once the government begins regulating, there is no stopping it.
Background checks or registration are perceived as just the first step
to the government confiscating every gun.
But this, too, doesn't succeed in explaining the political divide over
guns. Surely liberals distrust the government just as much as
conservatives. In fact, in the area of criminal procedure, it generally is
conservatives who favor more deference to the police, and liberals
who want more constitutional limits on police behavior through the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments. This seems at odds with the distrust
in the government and law enforcement that underlies the individual
rights position. Also, slippery slope arguments have rhetorical appeal,
but are much weaker as a matter of logic; there is no reason why
registration is the first step to a progression that will lead to the
confiscation of all guns.
This brief review of possible cultural explanations for the difference
in views between liberals and conservatives about guns leaves me
puzzled. There does not seem to be a rational account for why
conservatives consistently take the individual rights view, while
liberals take the collective rights position. One could imagine it
having turned out just the other way, as liberals would urge a broad
view of the Second Amendment, as they do for other Bill of Rights
provisions. But something else is going on to account for why guns
and gun control have become such powerful symbols in our cultural
divide. This issue seems a fascinating one, but so far has not been
addressed in the huge literature of the Second Amendment.
III. OBSCURING THE LEGAL ISSUES
My goal thus far has been to center the gun control debate in the
larger political and cultural context. But I fear that doing so obscures
the legal issues that are likely to confront courts. Indeed, having read
so much of the scholarly literature in the gun control debate, I have
the sense that relatively little of it has anything to do with the legal
issues concerning guns that will need to be addressed in the courts in
the years ahead. The question before courts is not going to be
whether the government can ban all ownership of firearms. Yet, that
seems to be the underlying question debated in so much of the
scholarly literature.
The major recent cases concerning guns involved laws limiting
ownership of guns by those subject to restraining orders in domestic
relations cases,2 and a ban on assault weapons.22 Proposals for
further control of guns include: universal background checks; a
21. See Emerson, 270 F.3d at 203 (upholding the law, though adopting the
individual rights approach).
22. See Lockyer, 328 F.3d at 567 (upholding the ban on assault weapons, while
adopting the collective rights approach).
2004]
FORDHAM LAW REVIEW
national registry for guns; more limits on the ability of those with a
history of mental illness or violence to have guns; greater restrictions
on particular types of guns and ammunition that are likely to cause
grave harms; and more liability for gun manufacturers in civil cases.
What are likely to be the legal issues when existing laws, like those
in Emerson 3 or Lockyer,24 or possible future laws, like those
mentioned above, are challenged in the courts? One issue is sure to
be whether the Second Amendment applies to state and local
governments. The Supreme Court has never held that the Second
Amendment is incorporated or that it even applies to state and local
governments. Although I agreed with the Ninth Circuit's analysis and
conclusions in Silveira in upholding California's assault weapons ban,
I found it very troubling that the court simply assumed that the
Second Amendment applies to the states. If the Second Amendment
is not incorporated, then there was no need for the court to even
consider whether the individual or collective rights approach is best.
The case should have been decided simply on the grounds that the
Second Amendment did not apply at all. The court, apparently out of
a desire to express its views on the constitutional debate, begged the
question of whether the Second Amendment is incorporated.
A second major legal issue concerns what level of scrutiny should
be used, even assuming that the individual rights position is accepted.
The assumption in the debate seems to be that an individual rights
approach would mean strict scrutiny would be used when courts
appraise the constitutionality of gun control measures. But there is no
reason why this must necessarily be so. There are claims of individual
rights under textual provisions of the Constitution which receive only
rational basis review. Claims of economic liberties, such as freedom
of contract under the Due Process Clause, have received only rational
basis review.
A third issue which will need to be resolved by courts concerns
what is an infringement of the right to bear arms, even assuming an
individual rights approach is taken. Is a requirement for background
checks a violation of an individual's rights under the Second
Amendment? Does liability for gun manufacturers violate this right?
It is easy to imagine that even if the individual rights approach is
taken, courts could allow such regulation and liability on the grounds
that they do not infringe upon the rights protected by the Second
Amendment.
Indeed, it is striking that the intense debate in the public and
scholarly arenas over the meaning of the Second Amendment seems
to have so little relevance to these legal questions. It is easy to
imagine a court accepting the individual rights approach and then
23. Emerson, 270 F.3d at 203.
24. Lockyer, 328 F.3d at 567.
[Vol. 73
GUN CONTROL DEBATE
upholding every likely gun restriction. State and local laws could be
upheld by courts reaffirming that the Second Amendment is not
incorporated. Federal laws could be upheld by courts using rational
basis review.
Put another way, the debate between the individual and collective
rights approaches to the Second Amendment might be completely
irrelevant to resolving the legal issues actually likely to arise and
confront courts. The enormous attention focused on this choice
between perspectives of the Second Amendment obscures the real
legal issues likely to be litigated and faced by courts.
CONCLUSION
The debate over the meaning of the Second Amendment will never
be resolved. Guns have become such a symbol and the debate is so
visceral that it is difficult to imagine a bridge between the two sides.
For one side, guns are a symbol of individual freedom; gun ownership
is seen as a fundamental personal right, and gun control is regarded as
a major step towards tyranny. For the other side, guns inflict
enormous death and pain and suffering and gun control is an essential
step towards protecting public safety. For those on this side, like
myself, it is inconceivable why someone would want to be near, let
alone own, a gun.
The debate over the Second Amendment can be phrased in the
fanciest language and each side can develop sophisticated arguments
as to the meaning of the Constitution's text, supported by apt
quotations from relevant framers. But in the end, these arguments are
just ways in which each side defends its deeply held views about guns
and gun control.
At any point in time, certain issues define who is a liberal and who
is a conservative. Guns today seem to be such an issue. Certainly,
politically this is so, and if Emerson and Lockyer are predictors, this
proposition will be true in the courts as well, and judges' decisions will
reflect their underlying ideologies. With regard to the meaning of the
Second Amendment, conservative judges are likely to take the
individual rights approach and liberal judges are likely to take the
collective rights approach.
Yet, I wonder if the abstract choice between the two competing
world views of the Second Amendment will really be necessary. If the
Second Amendment is not deemed to be incorporated, and if only
rational basis review is used, then virtually all gun control can be
upheld, no matter which approach is taken.
2004]
Notes & Observations