. Construction of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(8)

18 U.S.C. § 922 provides in relevant part:

“(g) It shall be unlawful for any person-

․

(8) who is subject to a court order that-

(A) was issued after a hearing of which such person received actual notice, and at which such person had an opportunity to participate;

(B) restrains such person from harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner of such person or child of such intimate partner or person, or engaging in other conduct that would place an intimate partner in reasonable fear of bodily injury to the partner or child;  and

(C)(i) includes a finding that such person represents a credible threat to the physical safety of such intimate partner or child;  or

(ii) by its terms explicitly prohibits the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against such intimate partner or child that would reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury;  or

․

to ship or transport in interstate or foreign commerce, or possess in or affecting commerce, any firearm or ammunition;  or to receive any firearm or ammunition which has been shipped or transported in interstate or foreign commerce.”

 Emerson argues that section 922(g)(8)(C)(ii) should be construed to require that the particular predicate court order include an explicit finding that the person enjoined posed a credible threat of violence to his spouse or child.   Emerson further argues that the statute must also be read to require that the predicate order be supported by sufficient evidence before the court entering it to sustain such a finding, so that the court in the criminal prosecution must examine the record in the proceeding before the court entering the predicate order and must acquit the defendant in the criminal case if the evidence before the court entering the predicate order was not sufficient to sustain such a finding.   It is, of course, our duty to construe a statute so as to avoid any serious constitutional questions.   However, the statute must be susceptible to that construction, i.e. our construction must be fairly possible;  the duty to avoid constitutional questions is not a license to rewrite the statute.  Jones v. United States, 526 U.S. 227, 119 S.Ct. 1215, 1222, 143 L.Ed.2d 311 (1999);  Feltner v. Columbia Pictures Television, Inc., 523 U.S. 340, 118 S.Ct. 1279, 1283, 140 L.Ed.2d 438 (1998);  United States v. Albertini, 472 U.S. 675, 105 S.Ct. 2897, 2902, 86 L.Ed.2d 536 (1985).  “If the statutory language is unambiguous, in the absence of ‘a clearly expressed legislative intent to the contrary, that language must ordinarily be regarded as conclusive.’ ”  Russello v. United States, 464 U.S. 16, 104 S.Ct. 296, 299, 78 L.Ed.2d 17 (1983) (quoting United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576, 101 S.Ct. 2524, 2527, 69 L.Ed.2d 246 (1981)).   In addition, if uncertainty remains after an examination of the statute's text, its legislative history and the policies it advances, the rule of lenity requires this uncertainty to be resolved in favor of Emerson.   United States v. Prestenbach, 230 F.3d 780, n. 23 (5th Cir.2000).

 Turning first to Emerson's second statutory argument, there is nothing in the text of the statute to support it.   Moreover, it is contrary to uniform construction of section 922(g) and its predecessors under which the courts have construed this and other similar subsections of section 922.   See, e.g., Lewis v. United States, 445 U.S. 55, 100 S.Ct. 915, 63 L.Ed.2d 198 (1980);  United States v. Chambers, 922 F.2d 228, 232-40 (5th Cir.1991).   Just as Lewis observed that “nothing [in the statutory text] suggests any restriction on the scope of the term ‘convicted,’ ” id. at 918, so also nothing in section 922(g)(8) suggests that the validity of the particular predicate court order may be inquired into in the section 922(g)(8) criminal prosecution.   Moreover, this is consistent with the long standing federal rule that violation of an injunction that is subsequently invalidated may, at least so long as it cannot be characterized as having only a transparent or frivolous pretense to validity, be punished as criminal contempt.   See Chambers at 239-40;  National Maritime Union v. Aquaslide ‘N’ Dive Corp., 737 F.2d 1395, 1399-1400 (5th Cir.1984).4

 We likewise reject the argument that section 922(g)(8) requires that the predicate order contain an express judicial finding that the defendant poses a credible threat to the physical safety of his spouse or child.   If the requirements of 922(g)(8)(A) and (B) are fulfilled, then by its terms section 922(g)'s firearms disability attaches if either clause (C)(i) or clause (C)(ii) applies.   Although an express judicial finding of future dangerousness pursuant to section 922(g)(8)(C)(i) is one way section 922(g)(8)'s firearms disability can attach, to construe section 922(g)(8) as always requiring an express judicial finding would be to substitute the word “and” for the word “or” that appears at the end of 922(g)(8)(C)(i).   If Congress intended to require an express judicial finding, it would have arranged the elements as 922(g)(8)(A)-(D) and used the word “and” rather than “or” to join them.

Notwithstanding the lack of textual ambiguity, Emerson maintains that we should either imply the express judicial finding requirement into section 922(g)(8) or at least recognize the lack of an express judicial finding as an affirmative defense to section 922(g)(8).   He argues that, without the requirement of an express judicial finding, sections 922(g)(8)(B) and (C)(ii) are redundant while section 922(g)(8)(A) is rendered a nullity.   While there is some overlap between section 922(g)(8)(B) and (C)(ii), each still has some independent scope in the statutory scheme.  Section 922(g)(8)(B) broadly refers to orders that restrain harassing, stalking or threatening.   It is quite possible that an order could surmount the section 922(g)(8)(B) hurdle and yet only fulfill one of the section 922(g)(8)(C) criteria.   Congress obviously felt that if the order only “restrains” harassing, stalking, threatening, or otherwise causing fear of injury, an express judicial finding of a credible threat of violence was necessary.   Section 922(g)(8)(B) and (C)(i).   However, if the order “by its terms explicitly prohibits” the use, attempted use or threatened use of physical force, no such express finding was necessary.  Section 922(g)(8)(C)(ii).   Thus, Congress affirmatively drew a distinction between orders “explicitly prohibiting” the actual, attempted or threatened physical attack and those merely “restraining” stalking or harassment.   It is true that both sections embrace orders that proscribe threats, but this degree of congruence is insufficient to overcome the plain meaning of the text.   Nor do we agree that the absence of a requirement of an express judicial finding renders section 922(g)(8)(A) a nullity.

Emerson also argues that the word “restrain”, as used in 922(g)(8)(B), necessarily requires an express judicial finding that the defendant poses a credible threat of violence to his spouse or child.   The argument is simply that both temporary and permanent injunctions traditionally require, in addition to notice and hearing, some express judicial finding supporting the court's order.   While this may be generally true, it is not invariably the case that injunctions must contain such findings and, more importantly, the argument made does not overcome the fact that Congress specifically required notice and hearing in all section 922(g)(8) cases but affirmatively and specifically required an express finding only in cases governed by clause (C)(i).   The crux of the matter is that we cannot imply in clause (C)(ii) an express finding requirement that is not stated in it while being affirmatively and specifically stated in clause (C)(i).

Relying on the legislative history of section 922(g)(8), Emerson and amicus the State of Alabama contend that all three versions of the bill (one from the House, two from the Senate) that went to the Conference Committee required an express judicial finding.   They contend that the real purpose of section 922(g)(8)(C)(ii) is to close a “loophole” in section 922(g)(8) that would have prevented it from applying if the express judicial finding was not in the order itself, but instead, for example, in an accompanying memorandum.   We find neither argument ultimately persuasive.   Contrary to the assertions of Emerson and the State of Alabama, one of the Senate versions of the bill that went to the Conference Committee did authorize a firearms disability without any express judicial finding.   This version resulted from amendment 1179 to S.1607, submitted by Senator Biden for Senator Wellstone on November 10, 1993.   Amendment 1179 provided, in relevant part:

“(8)(A) has been convicted in any court of an offense that-

(i) involves the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against a person who is a spouse, former spouse, domestic partner, child, or former child of the person;  or

(ii) by its nature, involves a substantial risk that physical force against a person who is a spouse, former spouse, domestic partner, child, or former child of the person may be used in the course of committing the offense;  or

(B) is required, pursuant to an order issued by any court in a case involving a person described in subparagraph (A), to refrain from any contact with or to maintain a minimum distance from that person, or to refrain from abuse, harassment, or stalking of that person.”

139 Cong. Rec. S15638-03, *S15650.   This language was sent to the Conference Committee on November 24, 1993, and clearly contemplates a firearms disability without either a conviction or an express judicial finding of future dangerousness.  139 Cong. Rec. S17095-03, *S17174.5  Emerson's contention that 922(g)(8)(C)(ii)'s presence in the statute cannot be explained by anything sent to the Conference Committee is unfounded.   Similarly, there is nothing in the legislative history suggesting that Congress, or any of its committees or members, ever addressed, considered or had called to its or their attention the supposed “loophole” in the statutory scheme now put forth by Emerson.

Because the construction urged by Emerson is not fairly possible, we must decline his invitation to rewrite section 922(g)(8).   Likewise, because section 922(g)(8) is not ambiguous, the rule of lenity provides no basis for relief.

II. Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment

The district court held that prosecution for violating section 922(g)(8) would deprive Emerson of his Fifth Amendment right to Due Process because: 1) Dr. Emerson did not know that possession of a firearm while being subject to the September 14, 1998 order was a crime;  2) section 922(g)(8) is an “obscure criminal provision” that would be difficult for Emerson to discover;  3) there is nothing inherently evil about possessing a firearm;  and 4) Emerson had no reason to suspect that being subject to the September 14, 1998 order would criminalize otherwise lawful behavior.  United States v. Emerson, 46 F.Supp.2d 598, 611-13.   The district court relied upon Lambert v. California, 355 U.S. 225, 78 S.Ct. 240, 243, 2 L.Ed.2d 228 (1957), in which the Supreme Court struck down a Los Angeles law requiring resident felons to register with the city.   The Supreme Court observed that:  1) the defendant had been prosecuted for passive activity;  2) the defendant was unaware of the need to register;  3) circumstances that would have prompted an inquiry into the necessity of registration were lacking;  and 4) an average member of the community would not consider the punished conduct blameworthy.  Id.

 At the outset, we note that “[t]he sweep of the Lambert case has been limited by subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court, lest it swallow the general rule that ignorance of the law is no excuse.”   United States v. Giles, 640 F.2d 621, 628 (5th Cir.1981).  18 U.S.C. § 924(a)(2) provides that the required mens rea for conviction under section 922(g) is knowledge (“Whoever knowingly violates subsection ․ (g) ․ of section 922 ․”).  “Knowingly”-in contrast to at least some uses of “wilfully”-does not require that the defendant know that his actions are unlawful, but only that he know he is engaging in the activity that the legislature has proscribed.  Bryan v. United States, 524 U.S. 184, 118 S.Ct. 1939, 1945-47, 141 L.Ed.2d 197 (1998).  Bryan explained that Staples v. United States, 511 U.S. 600, 114 S.Ct. 1793, 128 L.Ed.2d 608 (1994), exemplifies this distinction.   In Staples, the Supreme Court held that conviction for unlawful possession of a machine gun did not require knowledge that machine gun possession was unlawful, but only knowledge that the weapon possessed was a machine gun.  Bryan, 118 S.Ct. at 1946 (under Staples “[i]t was not, however, necessary to prove that the defendant knew that his possession was unlawful”).   Here, there is no question that Emerson was aware that on November 16, 1998, he actively possessed a firearm of the kind covered by the statute while subject to the September 14, 1998 order or that he misapprehended the actual contents of that order.6

 Moreover, Emerson filled out and signed BATF Form 4473 when, on October 10, 1997, he purchased the Beretta semi-automatic pistol referred to in Count 1. This afforded notice to Emerson that so long as he was under a court order such as that of September 14, 1998, federal law prohibited his continued possession of that weapon.7  In Giles, we distinguished Lambert on this basis (as well as others), noting “Giles' situation, of course, is far different from that of Ms. Lambert, for he was directly confronted with accurate written notice of the conduct proscribed by the statute [then § 922(h)(1) ] when he filled out and signed a Form 4473 as part of each firearm purchase.”  Giles, 640 F.2d at 628.   Finally, we agree with the district court that firearms ownership is not inherently evil or suspect and that thus a certain mens rea is required.  Staples, 114 S.Ct. at 1799-1801.   However, Bryan and Staples make clear that the necessary mens rea in this context does not require knowledge of the law but merely of the legally relevant facts.  Giles rejects application of Lambert at least where, as here, there is the notice provided by the Form 4473.   For these reasons, we hold that Emerson's case does not merit relief under Lambert, and that the district court erred when it granted Emerson's motion to dismiss the indictment as violating his Fifth Amendment Due Process rights on that basis.

III. Commerce Clause

 The district court rejected Emerson's contention that, in enacting section 922(g)(8), Congress exceeded its power under the Commerce Clause.   As the district court noted, this Court has held that, because section 922(g)(8) only criminalizes the possession of firearms or ammunition “in or affecting commerce” and the reception of firearms that have been “shipped or transported in interstate or foreign commerce”, Congress did not exceed its Article I, Section 8 powers in enacting it.  United States v. Pierson, 139 F.3d 501, 503 (5th Cir.), cert. denied, 525 U.S. 896, 119 S.Ct. 220, 142 L.Ed.2d 181 (1998).   Accordingly, the district court, as bound by this precedent as we are, did not err in denying Emerson's motion to dismiss the indictment on Commerce Clause grounds.8

IV. Tenth Amendment

 The district court held that congressional enactment of section 922(g)(8) did not violate the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution.   Finding no reference to this issue in Emerson's brief to this Court, we must consider his Tenth Amendment claim abandoned.

V. Second Amendment

The Second Amendment provides:

“A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.”

A. Introduction and Overview of Second Amendment Models

The district court held that the Second Amendment recognizes the right of individual citizens to own and possess firearms, and declared that section 922(g)(8) was unconstitutional on its face because it requires that a citizen be disarmed merely because of being subject to a “boilerplate [domestic relations injunctive] order with no particularized findings.”  Emerson, 46 F.Supp.2d at 611.   The government opines that stare decisis requires us to reverse the district court's embrace of the individual rights model.   Amici for the government argue that even if binding precedent does not require reversal, the flaws in the district court's Second Amendment analysis do.

In the last few decades, courts and commentators have offered what may fairly be characterized as three different basic interpretations of the Second Amendment.   The first is that the Second Amendment does not apply to individuals;  rather, it merely recognizes the right of a state to arm its militia.9  This “states' rights” or “collective rights” interpretation of the Second Amendment has been embraced by several of our sister circuits.10  The government commended the states' rights view of the Second Amendment to the district court, urging that the Second Amendment does not apply to individual citizens.

Proponents of the next model admit that the Second Amendment recognizes some limited species of individual right.   However, this supposedly “individual” right to bear arms can only be exercised by members of a functioning, organized state militia who bear the arms while and as a part of actively participating in the organized militia's activities.   The “individual” right to keep arms only applies to members of such a militia, and then only if the federal and state governments fail to provide the firearms necessary for such militia service.   At present, virtually the only such organized and actively functioning militia is the National Guard, and this has been the case for many years.   Currently, the federal government provides the necessary implements of warfare, including firearms, to the National Guard, and this likewise has long been the case.   Thus, under this model, the Second Amendment poses no obstacle to the wholesale disarmament of the American people.   A number of our sister circuits have accepted this model, sometimes referred to by commentators as the sophisticated collective rights model.11  On appeal the government has abandoned the states' rights model and now advocates the sophisticated collective rights model.

The third model is simply that the Second Amendment recognizes the right of individuals to keep and bear arms.   This is the view advanced by Emerson and adopted by the district court.   None of our sister circuits has subscribed to this model, known by commentators as the individual rights model or the standard model.   The individual rights view has enjoyed considerable academic endorsement, especially in the last two decades.12

We now turn to the question of whether the district court erred in adopting an individual rights or standard model as the basis of its construction of the Second Amendment.

B. Stare Decisis and United States v. Miller

The government steadfastly maintains that the Supreme Court's decision in United States v. Miller, 307 U.S. 174, 59 S.Ct. 816, 83 L.Ed. 1206 (1939), mandated acceptance of the collective rights or sophisticated collective rights model, and rejection of the individual rights or standard model, as a basis for construction of the Second Amendment.   We disagree.

Only in United States v. Miller has the Supreme Court rendered any holding respecting the Second Amendment as applied to the federal government.13  There, the indictment charged the defendants with transporting in interstate commerce, from Oklahoma to Arkansas, an unregistered “Stevens shotgun having a barrel less than 18 inches in length” without having the required stamped written order, contrary to the National Firearms Act.14 The defendants filed a demurrer challenging the facial validity of the indictment on the ground that “[t]he National Firearms Act ․ offends the inhibition of the Second Amendment,” and “[t]he District Court held that section 11 of the Act [proscribing interstate transportation of a firearm, as therein defined, that lacked registration or a stamped order] violates the Second Amendment.   It accordingly sustained the demurrer and quashed the indictment.”  Id. at 817-18.   The government appealed, and we have examined a copy of its brief.15  The Miller defendants neither filed any brief nor made any appearance in the Supreme Court.

The government's Supreme Court brief “[p]reliminarily” points out that:

“․ the National Firearms Act does not apply to all firearms but only to a limited class of firearms.   The term ‘firearm’ is defined in Section 1 of the Act ․ to refer only to ‘a shotgun or rifle having a barrel of less than 18 inches in length, or any other weapon, except a pistol or revolver, from which a shot is discharged by an explosive if such weapon is capable of being concealed on the person, or a machine gun, and includes a muffler or silencer for any firearm whether or not such firearm is included within the foregoing definition.’ ” (id. at 6).

In this connection the brief goes on to assert that it is “indisputable that Congress was striking not at weapons intended for legitimate use but at weapons which form the arsenal of the gangster and the desperado” (id. at 7) and that the National Firearms Act restricts interstate transportation “of only those weapons which are the tools of the criminal” (id. at 8).

The government's brief thereafter makes essentially two legal arguments.

First, it contends that the right secured by the Second Amendment is “only one which exists where the arms are borne in the militia or some other military organization provided for by law and intended for the protection of the state.”  Id. at 15.   This, in essence, is the sophisticated collective rights model.

The second of the government's two arguments in Miller is reflected by the following passage from its brief:

“While some courts have said that the right to bear arms includes the right of the individual to have them for the protection of his person and property as well as the right of the people to bear them collectively (People v. Brown, 253 Mich. 537, 235 N.W. 245;  State v. Duke, 42 Tex. 455), the cases are unanimous in holding that the term ‘arms' as used in constitutional provisions refers only to those weapons which are ordinarily used for military or public defense purposes and does not relate to those weapons which are commonly used by criminals.   Thus in Aymette v. State [2 Humph., Tenn. 154 (1840) ], supra, it was said (p. 158):

‘As the object for which the right to keep and bear arms is secured, is of general and public nature, to be exercised by the people in a body, for their common defence, so the arms, the right to keep which is secured, are such as are usually employed in civilized warfare, and that constitute the ordinary military equipment.   If the citizens have these arms in their hands, they are prepared in the best possible manner to repel any encroachments upon their rights by those in authority.   They need not, for such a purpose, the use of those weapons which are usually employed in private broils, and which are efficient only in the hands of the robber and the assassin.   These weapons would be useless in war.   They could not be employed advantageously in the common defence of the citizens.   The right to keep and bear them, is not, therefore, secured by the constitution.’ ”  (Id. at 18-19). 16

The government's Miller brief then proceeds (at pp. 19-20) to cite various other state cases, and Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U.S. 275, 17 S.Ct. 326, 329, 41 L.Ed. 715 (1897),17 in support of its second argument, and states:

“That the foregoing cases conclusively establish that the Second Amendment has relation only to the right of the people to keep and bear arms for lawful purposes and does not conceivably relate to weapons of the type referred to in the National Firearms Act cannot be doubted.   Sawed-off shotguns, sawed-off rifles and machine guns are clearly weapons which can have no legitimate use in the hands of private individuals.”

Thereafter, the government's brief in its “conclusion” states:  “․ we respectfully submit that Section 11 of the National Firearms Act does not infringe ‘the right of the people to keep and bear arms' secured by the Second Amendment.”

Miller reversed the decision of the district court and “remanded for further proceedings.”  Id. at 820.   We believe it is entirely clear that the Supreme Court decided Miller on the basis of the government's second argument-that a “shotgun having a barrel of less than eighteen inches in length” as stated in the National Firearms Act is not (or cannot merely be assumed to be) one of the “Arms” which the Second Amendment prohibits infringement of the right of the people to keep and bear-and not on the basis of the government's first argument (that the Second Amendment protects the right of the people to keep and bear no character of “arms” when not borne in actual, active service in the militia or some other military organization provided for by law).  Miller expresses its holding as follows:

“In the absence of any evidence tending to show that possession or use of a ‘shotgun having a barrel of less than eighteen inches in length’ at this time has some reasonable relationship to the preservation or efficiency of a well regulated militia, we cannot say that the Second Amendment guarantees the right to keep and bear such an instrument.   Certainly it is not within judicial notice that this weapon is any part of the ordinary military equipment or that its use could contribute to the common defense.   Aymette v. State of Tennessee, 2 Humph., Tenn. 154, 158.”  Id. at 818 (emphasis added).

Note that the cited page of Aymette (p. 158) is the page from which the government's brief quoted in support of its second argument (see text at call for note 16 supra ).18

Nowhere in the Court's Miller opinion is there any reference to the fact that the indictment does not remotely suggest that either of the two defendants was ever a member of any organized, active militia, such as the National Guard, much less that either was engaged (or about to be engaged) in any actual military service or training of such a militia unit when transporting the sawed-off shotgun from Oklahoma into Arkansas.   Had the lack of such membership or engagement been a ground of the decision in Miller, the Court's opinion would obviously have made mention of it.   But it did not.19

Nor do we believe that any other portion of the Miller opinion supports the sophisticated collective rights model.

Just after the above quoted portion of its opinion, the Miller court continued in a separate paragraph initially quoting the militia clauses of article 1, § 8 (clauses 15 and 16) 20 and concluding:

“With obvious purpose to assure the continuation and render possible the effectiveness of such forces [militia] the declaration and guarantee of the Second Amendment were made.   It must be interpreted and applied with that end in view.”  Id. at 818.

Miller then proceeds to discuss what was meant by the term “militia,” stating in part:

“The signification attributed to the term Militia appears from the debates in the Convention, the history and legislation of Colonies and States, and the writings of approved commentators.   These show plainly enough that the Militia comprised all males physically capable of acting in concert for the common defense. ․ ordinarily when called for service these men were expected to appear bearing arms supplied by themselves and of the kind in common use at the time.”

․

“The American Colonies In the 17th Century,” Osgood, Vol. 1, ch. XIII, affirms in reference to the early system of defense in New England-

“In all the colonies, as in England, the militia system was based on the principle of the assize of arms.   This implied the general obligation of all adult male inhabitants to possess arms, and, with certain exceptions, to cooperate in the work of defence.' ”  Id. at 818 (emphasis added).

“The General Court of Massachusetts, January Session 1784 (Laws and Resolves 1784, c. 55, pp. 140, 142), provided for the organization and government of the Militia.   It directed that the Train Band should ‘contain all able bodied men, from sixteen to forty years of age, and the Alarm List, all other men under sixty years of age, * * *.’ ”  Id. at 819 (emphasis added).

These passages from Miller suggest that the militia, the assurance of whose continuation and the rendering possible of whose effectiveness Miller says were purposes of the Second Amendment, referred to the generality of the civilian male inhabitants throughout their lives from teenage years until old age and to their personally keeping their own arms, and not merely to individuals during the time (if any) they might be actively engaged in actual military service or only to those who were members of special or select units.

We conclude that Miller does not support the government's collective rights or sophisticated collective rights approach to the Second Amendment.   Indeed, to the extent that Miller sheds light on the matter it cuts against the government's position.   Nor does the government cite any other authority binding on this panel which mandates acceptance of its position in this respect.21  However, we do not proceed on the assumption that Miller actually accepted an individual rights, as opposed to a collective or sophisticated collective rights, interpretation of the Second Amendment.   Thus, Miller itself does not resolve that issue.22  We turn, therefore, to an analysis of history and wording of the Second Amendment for guidance.   In undertaking this analysis, we are mindful that almost all of our sister circuits have rejected any individual rights view of the Second Amendment.   However, it respectfully appears to us that all or almost all of these opinions seem to have done so either on the erroneous assumption that Miller resolved that issue or without sufficient articulated examination of the history and text of the Second Amendment.

C. Text

 We begin construing the Second Amendment by examining its text:  “[a] well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.”  U.S. Const. amend. II.

1. Substantive Guarantee

a. “People”

 The states rights model requires the word “people” to be read as though it were “States” or “States respectively.”   This would also require a corresponding change in the balance of the text to something like “to provide for the militia to keep and bear arms.”   That is not only far removed from the actual wording of the Second Amendment, but also would be in substantial tension with Art. 1, § 8, Cl. 16 (Congress has the power “To provide for ․ arming ․ the militia ․”).   For the sophisticated collective rights model to be viable, the word “people” must be read as the words “members of a select militia”.23  The individual rights model, of course, does not require that any special or unique meaning be attributed to the word “people.”   It gives the same meaning to the words “the people” as used in the Second Amendment phrase “the right of the people” as when used in the exact same phrase in the contemporaneously submitted and ratified First and Fourth Amendments.

 There is no evidence in the text of the Second Amendment, or any other part of the Constitution, that the words “the people” have a different connotation within the Second Amendment than when employed elsewhere in the Constitution.   In fact, the text of the Constitution, as a whole, strongly suggests that the words “the people” have precisely the same meaning within the Second Amendment as without.   And, as used throughout the Constitution, “the people” have “rights” and “powers,” but federal and state governments only have “powers” or “authority”, never “rights.” 24  Moreover, the Constitution's text likewise recognizes not only the difference between the “militia” and “the people” but also between the “militia” which has not been “call[ed] forth” and “the militia, when in actual service.” 25

Our view of the meaning of “the people,” as used in the Constitution, is in harmony with the United States Supreme Court's pronouncement in United States v. Verdugo-Urquidez, 494 U.S. 259, 110 S.Ct. 1056, 1060-61, 108 L.Ed.2d 222 (1990), that:

“ ‘[T]he people’ seems to have been a term of art employed in select parts of the Constitution.   The Preamble declares that the Constitution is ordained and established by ‘the People of the United States.’   The Second Amendment protects ‘the right of the people to keep and bear Arms,’ and the Ninth and Tenth Amendments provide that certain rights and powers are retained by and reserved to ‘the people.’   While this textual exegesis is by no means conclusive, it suggests that ‘the people’ protected by the Fourth Amendment, and by the First and Second Amendments, and to whom rights and powers are reserved in the Ninth and Tenth Amendments, refers to a class of people who are part of a national community or who have otherwise developed sufficient connection with this country to be considered part of that community.” (citations omitted)

 Several other Supreme Court opinions speak of the Second Amendment in a manner plainly indicating that the right which it secures to “the people” is an individual or personal, not a collective or quasi-collective, right in the same sense that the rights secured to “the people” in the First and Fourth Amendments, and the rights secured by the other provisions of the first eight amendments, are individual or personal, and not collective or quasi-collective, rights.   See, e.g., Planned Parenthood v. Casey, 505 U.S. 833, 112 S.Ct. 2791, 2805, 120 L.Ed.2d 674 (1992);  Moore v. City of East Cleveland, 431 U.S. 494, 97 S.Ct. 1932, 1937, 52 L.Ed.2d 531 (1977); 26  Robertson v. Baldwin, supra (see quotation in note 17 supra );  Scott v. Sandford, 60 U.S. (19 How.) 393, 417, 450-51, 15 L.Ed. 691, 705, 719 (1856).   See also Justice Black's concurring opinion in Duncan v. Louisiana, 391 U.S. 145, 88 S.Ct. 1444, 1456, 20 L.Ed.2d 491 (1968).27

It appears clear that “the people,” as used in the Constitution, including the Second Amendment, refers to individual Americans.

b. “Bear Arms”

 Proponents of the states' rights and sophisticated collective rights models argue that the phrase “bear arms” only applies to a member of the militia carrying weapons during actual militia service.   Champions of the individual rights model opine that “bear arms” refers to any carrying of weapons, whether by a soldier or a civilian.   There is no question that the phrase “bear arms” may be used to refer to the carrying of arms by a soldier or militiaman.   The issue is whether “bear arms” was also commonly used to refer to the carrying of arms by a civilian.

The best evidence that “bear arms” was primarily used to refer to military situations comes from Aymette v. State, 2 Humph., Tenn. 154 (1840), a prosecution for carrying a concealed bowie knife.   The Supreme Court of Tennessee, in construing section 26 of its declaration of rights, providing that “the free white men of this State have a right to keep and bear arms for their common defence,” stated:

“The 28th section of our bill of rights provides ‘that no citizen of this State shall be compelled to bear arms provided he will pay an equivalent, to be ascertained by law.’   Here we know that the phrase has a military sense, and no other;  and we must infer that it is used in the same way in the 26th section, which secures to the citizen the right to bear arms.   A man in pursuit of deer, elk, and buffaloes might carry his rifle every day for forty years, and yet it would never be said of him that he had borne arms․”

Unlike the Tennessee constitution at issue in Aymette, the Second Amendment has no “for their common defence” language and the United States Constitution contains no provision comparable to section 28 of the Tennessee constitution on which the Aymette court relied.

Amici supporting the government also cite other examples of state constitutional provisions allowing a conscientious objector to be excused from the duty of bearing arms if he pays an equivalent so that another can serve in his place.28

However, there are numerous instances of the phrase “bear arms” being used to describe a civilian's carrying of arms.   Early constitutional provisions or declarations of rights in at least some ten different states speak of the right of the “people” [or “citizen” or “citizens”] “to bear arms in defense of themselves [or ‘himself’] and the state,” or equivalent words, thus indisputably reflecting that under common usage “bear arms” was in no sense restricted to bearing arms in military service.29  And such provisions were enforced on the basis that the right to bear arms was not restricted to bearing arms during actual military service.   See Bliss v. Commonwealth, 13 Am. Dec. 251, 12 Ky. 90, 1822 WL 1085 (Ky.1822).

We also note that a minority of the delegates to the Pennsylvania ratification convention proposed the following amendment to the Constitution:

“That the people have a right to bear arms for the defense of themselves and their own state, or the United States, or for the purpose of killing game;  and no law shall be passed for disarming the people or any of them, unless for crimes committed, or real danger of public injury from individuals;  and as standing armies in the time of peace are dangerous to liberty, they ought not to be kept up;  and that the military shall be kept under strict subordination to and be governed by the civil powers.”

2 Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution 623-24 (Merill Jensen ed., 1976).   This is yet another example of “bear arms” being used to refer to the carrying of arms by civilians for non-military purposes.   Also revealing is a bill drafted by Thomas Jefferson and proposed to the Virginia legislature by James Madison (the author of the Second Amendment) on October 31, 1785, that would impose penalties upon those who violated hunting laws if they “shall bear a gun out of his [the violator's] inclosed ground, unless whilst performing military duty.”   2 The Papers of Thomas Jefferson 443-44 (J.P. Boyd, ed.1950).   A similar indication that “bear arms” was a general description of the carrying of arms by anyone is found in the 1828 edition of Webster's American Dictionary of the English Language;  where the third definition of bear reads:  “[t]o wear;  to bear as a mark of authority or distinction, as, to bear a sword, a badge, a name;  to bear arms in a coat.”

We conclude that the phrase “bear arms” refers generally to the carrying or wearing of arms.   It is certainly proper to use the phrase in reference to the carrying or wearing of arms by a soldier or militiaman;  thus, the context in which “bear arms” appears may indicate that it refers to a military situation, e.g. the conscientious objector clauses cited by amici supporting the government.   However, amici's argument that “bear arms” was exclusively, or even usually, used to only refer to the carrying or wearing of arms by a soldier or militiaman must be rejected.30  The appearance of “bear Arms” in the Second Amendment accords fully with the plain meaning of the subject of the substantive guarantee, “the people,” and offers no support for the proposition that the Second Amendment applies only during periods of actual military service or only to those who are members of a select militia.   Finally, our view of “bear arms” as used in the Second Amendment appears to be the same as that expressed in the dissenting opinion of Justice Ginsburg (joined by the Chief Justice and Justices Scalia and Souter) in Muscarello v. United States, 524 U.S. 125, 118 S.Ct. 1911, 1921, 141 L.Ed.2d 111 (1998);  viz:

“Surely a most familiar meaning [of carrying a firearm] is, as the Constitution's Second Amendment (‘keep and bear Arms') (emphasis added) and Black's Law Dictionary, at 214, indicate:  ‘wear, bear, or carry ․ upon the person or in the clothing or in a pocket, for the purpose ․ of being armed and ready for offensive or defensive action in a case of conflict with another person.’ ”

c. “Keep ․ Arms”

 Neither the government nor amici argue that “keep ․ Arms” commands a military connotation.31  The plain meaning of the right of the people to keep arms is that it is an individual, rather than a collective, right and is not limited to keeping arms while engaged in active military service or as a member of a select militia such as the National Guard.

d. Substantive Guarantee as a Whole

Taken as a whole, the text of the Second Amendment's substantive guarantee is not suggestive of a collective rights or sophisticated collective rights interpretation, and the implausibility of either such interpretation is enhanced by consideration of the guarantee's placement within the Bill of Rights and the wording of the other articles thereof and of the original Constitution as a whole.

2. Effect of Preamble

We turn now to the Second Amendment's preamble:  “A well-regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State.”   And, we ask ourselves whether this preamble suffices to mandate what would be an otherwise implausible collective rights or sophisticated collective rights interpretation of the amendment.   We conclude that it does not.

 Certainly, the preamble implies that the substantive guarantee is one which tends to enable, promote or further the existence, continuation or effectiveness of that “well-regulated Militia” which is “necessary to the security of a free State.”   As the Court said in Miller, immediately after quoting the militia clauses of Article I, § 8 (cl. 15 and 16), “[w]ith obvious purpose to assure the continuation and render possible the effectiveness of such forces the declaration and guarantee of the Second Amendment were made.”  Id., 59 S.Ct. at 818.   We conclude that the Second Amendment's substantive guarantee, read as guaranteeing individual rights, may as so read reasonably be understood as being a guarantee which tends to enable, promote or further the existence, continuation or effectiveness of that “well-regulated Militia” which is “necessary to the security of a free State.”   Accordingly, the preamble does not support an interpretation of the amendment's substantive guarantee in accordance with the collective rights or sophisticated collective rights model, as such an interpretation is contrary to the plain meaning of the text of the guarantee, its placement within the Bill of Rights and the wording of the other articles thereof and of the original Constitution as a whole.32

 As observed in Miller, “the Militia comprised all males physically capable of acting in concert for the common defense” and “that ordinarily when called for service these men were expected to appear bearing arms supplied by themselves.”  Id., 59 S.Ct. at 818.  Miller further notes that “ ‘[i]n all the colonies ․ the militia systems ․ implied the general obligation of all adult male inhabitants to possess arms.’ ”  Id. (citation omitted).33  There are frequent contemporaneous references to “a well-regulated militia” being “composed of the body of the people, trained in arms.” 34  Plainly, then, “a well-regulated Militia” refers not to a special or select subset or group taken out of the militia as a whole but rather to the condition of the militia as a whole, namely being well disciplined and trained.35  And, “Militia,” just like “well-regulated Militia,” likewise was understood to be composed of the people generally possessed of arms which they knew how to use, rather than to refer to some formal military group separate and distinct from the people at large.36  Madison also plainly shared these views, as is reflected in his Federalist No. 46 where he argued that power of Congress under the proposed constitution “[t]o raise and support Armies” (art. 1, § 8, cl. 12) posed no threat to liberty because any such army, if misused, “would be opposed [by] a militia amounting to near half a million of citizens with arms in their hands” and then noting “the advantage of being armed, which the Americans possess over the people of almost every other nation,” in contrast to “the several kingdoms of Europe” where “the governments are afraid to trust the people with arms.”   The Federalist Papers at 299 (Rossiter, New American Library).   Plainly, Madison saw an armed people as a foundation of the militia which would provide security for a “free” state, one which, like America but unlike the “kingdoms of Europe,” was not afraid to trust its people to have their own arms.37  The militia consisted of the people bearing their own arms when called to active service, arms which they kept and hence knew how to use.   If the people were disarmed there could be no militia (well-regulated or otherwise) as it was then understood.   That expresses the proper understanding of the relationship between the Second Amendment's preamble and its substantive guarantee.   As stated in Kates, Handgun Prohibition and the Original Meaning of the Second Amendment, supra note 12, “the [second] amendment's wording, so opaque to us, made perfect sense to the Framers:  believing that a militia (composed of the entire people possessed of their individually owned arms) was necessary for the protection of a free state, they guaranteed the people's right to possess those arms.”  Id. at 217-18.   Similarly, Cooley, General Principles of Constitutional Law (Little, Brown, 1880;  1981 Rothman & Co. reprint) rejects, as “not warranted by the intent,” an interpretation of the Second Amendment “that the right to keep and bear arms was only guaranteed to the Militia,” and states “[t]he meaning of the provision undoubtedly is, that the people, from whom the militia must be taken, shall have the right to keep and bear arms;  and they need no permission or regulation of law for the purpose.   But this enables the government to have a well-regulated militia;  for to bear arms implies something more than the mere keeping;  it implies the learning to handle and use them in a way that makes those who keep them ready for their efficient use.”  Id. at 271.   Much the same thought was expressed more than one hundred years later in the following passage from Tribe, American Constitutional Law (3d ed.2000):

“Perhaps the most accurate conclusion one can reach with any confidence is that the core meaning of the Second Amendment is a populist/republican/federalism one:  Its central object is to arm ‘We the People’ so that ordinary citizens can participate in the collective defense of their community and their state.   But it does so not through directly protecting a right on the part of states or other collectivities, assertable by them against the federal government, to arm the populace as they see fit.   Rather, the amendment achieves its central purpose by assuring that the federal government may not disarm individual citizens without some unusually strong justification consistent with the authority of the states to organize their own militias.   That assurance in turn is provided through recognizing a right (admittedly of uncertain scope) on the part of individuals to possess and use firearms in the defense of themselves and their homes ․ a right that directly limits action by Congress or by the Executive Branch ․” Id., Vol. 1, n.221 at 902.

In sum, to give the Second Amendment's preamble its full and proper due there is no need to torture the meaning of its substantive guarantee into the collective rights or sophisticated collective rights model which is so plainly inconsistent with the substantive guarantee's text, its placement within the bill of rights and the wording of the other articles thereof and of the original Constitution as a whole.

D. History

1. Introduction

Turning to the history of the Second Amendment's adoption, we find nothing inconsistent with the conclusion that as ultimately proposed by Congress and ratified by the states it was understood and intended in accordance with the individual rights model as set out above.

On May 25, 1787, the Federal Convention began meeting in Philadelphia to craft what would become the United States Constitution.   The primary shortcoming of the Articles of Confederation was that the central government it provided for was too weak.   It was generally recognized that, although a stronger central government was needed, the central government was to remain one of limited and enumerated powers only, lest the cure be worse than the disease.   Thus, the challenge was to design a federal government strong enough to deal effectively with that particular range of issues requiring federal control, without enabling the federal government to become an instrument of tyranny.   Not surprisingly, political leaders of that day differed as to the proper balance of these concerns.   The Federalists favored a strong federal government.   The Anti-Federalists were much more suspicious and fearful of a strong federal government and wanted numerous safeguards in place to protect the people and the states from being tyrannized and oppressed by the federal government.   The Federal Convention was dominated by the Federalists.   On September 17, 1787, the Convention completed its work and forwarded the Constitution to the Confederation Congress.

2. The Anti-Federalists' Fears

The Constitution alarmed Anti-Federalists for three reasons relevant to the debate over the meaning of the Second Amendment.

First, although the proposed federal government appeared to be one of limited and enumerated powers, the Anti-Federalists feared that it would someday attempt to infringe one or more of the people's fundamental rights.   To help prevent this, the Anti-Federalists wanted the United States Constitution, like most of the state Constitutions, to contain a Bill of Rights.38

Second, the Constitution gave the federal government large powers over the militia, allowing the Congress:

“To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;

To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress;”.

U.S. Const. art. I, § 8, cl. 15, 16.   Congress was also given the power “To raise and support Armies.”  Id. art. I § 8, cl. 12.   The states were also forbidden to keep troops without the consent of Congress.   Id. art. I, § 10, cl. 3.

The Anti-Federalists feared that the federal government would act or fail to act so as to destroy the militia, e.g. failure to arm the militia,39 disarmament of the militia 40 , failure to prescribe training for the militia 41 , creation of a select militia 42 or making militia service so unpleasant that the people would demand a standing army or select militia.43  These concerns over the militia were exacerbated by the third issue:  the federal government's power to maintain a standing army (art. I, § 8, cl. 12).   The Anti-Federalists feared that the federal government's standing army could be used to tyrannize and oppress the American people.44  Without a militia to defend against the federal government's standing army, the states and their citizens would be defenseless.45

Thus, the Anti-Federalists wanted the Constitution amended in three ways prior to ratification:  1) addition of a Bill of Rights;  2) recognition of the power of the states to arm and train their militias; 46  and 3) curtailment of the federal government's power to maintain a standing army.

3. The Federalist Response

The Federalists, of course, wanted the Constitution to be ratified.   Because the Constitution could only be ratified unchanged, this forced the Federalists to oppose all attempts to alter it prior to ratification.   The Federalists argued that no bill of rights was needed for three reasons:  1) it was beyond the purview of the federal government, intended to be one of limited and enumerated powers, to infringe upon fundamental rights; 47  2) any enumeration of fundamental rights might imply that the federal government had power to infringe upon those not mentioned; 48  and 3) the American people were used to being free-they would not allow their rights to be infringed.49

Realizing that the Anti-Federalists' two other concerns (federal control of arming and training of the militia and maintenance of a standing army) boiled down to a fear that the federal government's standing army would oppress a defenseless people, the Federalists' responded that:  1) the American people are armed and hence could successfully resist an oppressive standing army; 50  and 2) federal militia powers obviated the need for, or minimized the likelihood of, a large standing army being kept in existence.51

The Federalists also responded to the militia issue by arguing that the states had concurrent power to arm the militia, but this position was undermined when the Anti-Federalists invited the Federalists to put that state power in writing and that would have necessitated the return to the drawing board in another Constitutional convention that the Federalists were committed to avoiding.52

The Federalist position as to the militia and standing army issues depended upon the people being armed notwithstanding that the Constitution did not guarantee the right of the people to be armed.53

4. State Ratifications

Congress forwarded the Constitution to the states on September 28, 1787.   State conventions began considering the Constitution later that year.   By April 28, 1788, Delaware, New Jersey, Georgia, Connecticut and Maryland had ratified the Constitution without proposing any additions or changes to it.   The first sign of trouble in a state convention was in Pennsylvania in December of 1787.

a. Pennsylvania

In the Pennsylvania convention, the Federalists outnumbered the Anti-Federalists about two to one.   Not surprisingly, then, on December 12, 1787, the Pennsylvania convention ratified the Constitution by a vote of 46 to 23.   The convention did not propose any changes to the Constitution.   However, the disenchanted Anti-Federalists, known as the Pennsylvania Minority, explained that they would have agreed to the Constitution if it had been amended to reflect fourteen principles, among which were the following:

“7. That the people have a right to bear arms for the defense of themselves and their own state, or the United States, or for the purpose of killing game;  and no law shall be passed for disarming the people or any of them, unless for crimes committed, or real danger of public injury from individuals;  and as standing armies in the time of peace are dangerous to liberty, they ought not to be kept up;  and that the military shall be kept under strict subordination to and be governed by the civil power.

․

11.  That the power of organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia (the manner of disciplining the militia to be prescribed by Congress) remain with the individual states, and that Congress shall not have authority to call or march any of the militia out of their own state, without the consent of such state and for such length of time only as such state shall agree.”

2 The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution 623-24 (Merrill Jensen, ed.1976).   Note that “bear arms” clearly pertains to private, civilian wearing or carrying of arms and the power of the state to organize, arm and discipline the militia is in a separate section, indicating that the Anti-Federalists viewed these issues as distinct.

b. Massachusetts

Massachusetts ratified the Constitution on February 7, 1788, by a vote of 187 to 168.   Although the convention proposed nine amendments, none of them has relevance to the issues with which we are concerned.   However, during the Massachusetts convention, Samuel Adams proposed the following amendments:

“And that the said Constitution be never construed to authorize Congress to infringe the just liberty of the press, or the rights of conscience;  or to prevent the people of the United States, who are peaceable citizens, from keeping their own arms;  or to raise standing armies, unless when necessary for the defense of the United States, or of some one or more of them;  or to prevent the people from petitioning, in a peaceable and orderly manner, the federal legislature, for a redress of grievances;  or to subject the people to unreasonable searches and seizures of their persons, papers or possessions.”

Debates of the Massachusetts Convention of 1788 86-87, 266 (Boston, 1856).   This is another indication that the Anti-Federalists desired protection for the right of all peaceful citizens to keep arms as well as a limitation on the power of the federal government to maintain a large standing army.

c. South Carolina

The South Carolina Convention ratified the Constitution on May 23, 1788, stating two understandings and proposing two amendments, none of which are relevant to the issues before us.

d. New Hampshire

After adjourning on February 22, 1788, to avoid rejection of the Constitution, New Hampshire ratified the Constitution on June 21, 1788, by a vote of 57 to 47.   The New Hampshire convention proposed twelve amendments, the first nine of which are identical to Massachusetts'.   New Hampshire's proposed Amendments 10 and 12 were as follows:

“X. That no standing army shall be kept up in time of peace, unless with the consent of three-fourths of the members of each branch of Congress;  nor shall soldiers, in time of peace, be quartered upon private houses, without the consent of the owners.

․

XII.  Congress shall never disarm any citizen, unless such as are or have been in actual rebellion.”

1 Jonathan Elliot, The Debates in the Several State Conventions on the Adoption of the Federal Constitution 326 (2d ed., 1836).   New Hampshire sought to protect the individual right of all citizens to have arms and, separately, to limit the power of the federal government to maintain a large standing army.

e. Virginia

On June 25, 1788, the Virginia convention ratified the Constitution by a vote of 89 to 79.   The convention proposed a bill of rights containing twenty separate provisions and, in a separate section, proposed twenty amendments to the Constitution.   The seventeenth part of Virginia's proposed Bill of Rights and the ninth and eleventh parts of its proposed amendments to the Constitution were as follows:

[Bill of Rights section.]

“ 17th.   That the people have a right to keep and bear arms;  that a well-regulated militia, composed of the body of the people trained to arms, is the proper, natural, and safe defence of a free state;  that standing armies, in time of peace, are dangerous to liberty, and therefore ought to be avoided, as far as the circumstances and protection of the community will admit;  and that, in all cases, the military should be under strict subordination to, and governed by, the civil power.

[Amendments to the Constitution section.]

9th.   That no standing army, or regular troops, shall be raised, or kept up, in time of peace, without the consent of two thirds of the members present, in both houses.

11th.   That each state respectively shall have the power to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining its own militia, whensoever Congress shall omit or neglect to provide for the same.   That the militia shall not be subject to martial law, except when in actual service, in time of war, invasion, or rebellion;  and when not in the actual service of the United States, shall be subject only to such fines, penalties, and punishments, as shall be directed or inflicted by the laws of its own state.”

3 Jonathan Elliot, The Debates in the Several State Conventions on the Adoption of the Federal Constitution 658, 660 (2d ed., 1836).   The bill of rights provision, after stating “[t]hat the people have a right to keep and bear arms,” goes on to make general, philosophical observations about the militia and standing armies.   However, these general, philosophical observations are given their legal effectuation through separate, specific provisions apart from the Bill of Rights.   The Virginia convention realized that statements in the proposed Bill of Rights that militias are good and standing armies are bad fell short of adding to the power of the states or subtracting from the power of the federal government.   In the separate and distinct amendments section, the states were explicitly given militia powers and the federal government was forbidden to maintain a standing army unless other specific criteria were satisfied.

f. New York

On July 26, 1788, New York ratified the Constitution by a vote of 30 to 27.   New York incorporated an extensive Declaration of Rights and thirty-three proposed amendments to the Constitution into its ratification.   The relevant portions of each are:

[Declaration of Rights section.]

“That the people have a right to keep and bear arms;  that a well-regulated militia, including the body of the people capable of bearing arms, is the proper, natural, and safe defence of a free state.

․

That standing armies, in time of peace, are dangerous to liberty, and ought not to be kept up, except in cases of necessity;  and that at all times the military should be under strict subordination to the civil power.

[Amendments to the Constitution section.]

That no standing army or regular troops shall be raised, or kept up, in time of peace, without the consent of two thirds of the senators and representatives present in each house.”

1 Jonathan Elliot, The Debates in the Several State Conventions on the Adoption of the Federal Constitution 328, 330 (2d ed., 1836).   Note that:  1) the philosophical declaration concerning the preferability of a militia, which follows the statement “[t]hat the people have a right to keep and bear arms,” is not effectuated in the amendments section by a grant of power to the states to maintain a militia;  and 2) there is a separate clause in the Declaration of Rights section regarding standing armies which is effectuated by a separate proposed amendment to the Constitution.   This is another example that philosophical declarations alone were considered insufficient to subtract from the federal government's power or to add to the states' power.

g. North Carolina

On August 1, 1788, North Carolina refused to ratify the Constitution until a bill of rights and other amendments were added.   The North Carolina convention demanded the same Bill of Rights and amendments as proposed by Virginia.   It was not until November 21, 1789, after the Bill of Rights was forwarded by the First Congress to the states, that North Carolina finally ratified the Constitution by a vote of 194-77.

h. Rhode Island

Rhode Island did not ratify the Constitution until May 29, 1790, and then by a vote of 34-32.   Rhode Island incorporated a bill of rights into its ratification and proposed twenty-one amendments to the Constitution.   The apposite portions of each are:

[Declaration of Rights section.]

“XVII.  That the people have a right to keep and bear arms;  that a well-regulated militia, including the body of the people capable of bearing arms, is the proper, natural, and safe defence of a free state;  that the militia shall not be subject to martial law, except in time of war, rebellion, or insurrection;  that standing armies, in time of peace, are dangerous to liberty, and ought not to be kept up, except in cases of necessity;  and that, at all times, the military should be under strict subordination to the civil power;  that, in time of peace, no soldier ought to be quartered in any house without the consent of the owner, and in time of war only by the civil magistrates, in such manner as the law directs.

[Amendments to the Constitution section.]

XII.  As standing armies, in time of peace, are dangerous to liberty, and ought not to be kept up, except in cases of necessity, and as, at all times, the military should be under strict subordination to the civil power, that, therefore, no standing army or regular troops shall be raised or kept up in time of peace.”

Id. at 335-36.   Note how even the amendment regarding standing armies contains two philosophical declarations before getting to the substantive restriction on federal power, namely that no army shall be maintained during peacetime.

5. Proposal of Second Amendment

By mid 1788, the required nine states had ratified the Constitution, and it was clear the Federalists had won a major victory.   But by the spring of 1789, the Anti-Federalists had succeeded in persuading many that a bill of rights was absolutely necessary.   Some Anti-Federalists did continue to argue for additional, structural changes to the Constitution, but most were primarily concerned with a bill of rights.   At the same time, while some Federalists continued to reject any changes to the Constitution, most softened their opposition to a bill of rights, mindful of the strong public support for it and aware that a bill of rights would not materially affect the plan of government they had worked so diligently to implement.   See President George Washington, Inaugural Address, April 30, 1789 (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 642) (“I assure myself that whilst you carefully avoid every alteration which might endanger the benefits of an united and effective government, or which ought to await the future lessons of experience;  a reverence for the characteristic rights of freemen, and a regard for the public harmony, will sufficiently influence your deliberations on the question how far the former can be more impregnably fortified, or the latter be safely and advantageously promoted.”);   Letter from Charles Smith to Tench Coxe (October 18, 1788) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 542) (“It seems, therefore, to be the wish of the moderate and reasonable men of all parties that some necessary explanations should take place, in order to quiet the minds of our dissenting fellow citizens, and to introduce union and harmony throughout the state.   Attention to this subject ought to be considered as a duty incumbent upon our first federal Representatives.”).   Thus, as there sometimes is after a hard-fought political struggle, most of the combatants, for the good of the country, sought middle ground.

Federalist James Madison ran for a seat in the First Congress, and because of the strong public support for a bill of rights clarified his own support for it:

“The offer of my services to the district, rests on the following grounds:-That although I always conceived the constitution might be improved, yet I never could see in it, as it stands, the dangers which have alarmed many respectable citizens;  that I held it my duty therefore, whilst the constitution remained unratified, and it was necessary to unite the various opinions, interests and prejudices of the different states, in some one plan, to oppose every previous amendment, as opening a door for endless and dangerous contentions among the states, and giving an opportunity to the secret enemies of the union to promote its dissolution:-That the change of circumstances produced by the secure establishment of the plan proposed, leaves me free to espouse such amendments as will, in the most satisfactory manner, guard essential rights, and will render certain vexatious abuses of power impossible ․”

James Madison, Extract of a letter from the Hon. JAMES MADISON, jun. to his friend in this county, Fredericksburg Virginia Herald, January 29, 1788 (reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 609).   The Federalists ended up with a majority in both the House and the Senate.   But as the eventual adoption of a bill of rights shows, many Federalists were as open to a bill of rights as James Madison himself was.   See Letter from James Madison to Edmund Pendleton (April 8, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 640) (“The subject of amendments has not yet been touched-From appearances there will be no great difficulty in obtaining reasonable ones.   It will depend however entirely on the temper of the federalists, who predominate as much in both branches, as could be wished.   Even in this State [Virginia], notwithstanding the violence of its antifederal symptoms, three of its six representatives at least will be zealous friends to the Constitution, and it is not improbable that a fourth will be of the same description.”).   The Anti-Federalists sensed that although the tide had turned their way as to alterations that would secure individual liberty, the prospects for other changes to the Constitution were dim.   See Letter from Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry (May 28, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 644)(“I think, from what I hear and see, that many of our amendments will not succeed, but my hopes are strong that such as may effectually secure civil liberty will not be refused.”).

a. Legislative History

On June 8, 1789, Virginia Congressman James Madison proposed several alterations to the Constitution in the First Congress.   In his address to the House, Madison explained his rationale in proposing the changes:

“I wish, among other reasons why something should be done, that those who have been friendly to the adoption of this constitution may have the opportunity of proving to those who were opposed to it that they were as sincerely devoted to liberty and a Republican Government, as those who charged them with wishing the adoption of this constitution in order to lay the foundation of an aristocracy or despotism.   It will be a desirable thing to extinguish from the bosom of every member of the community, any apprehension that there are those among his countrymen who wish to deprive them of the liberty for which they valiantly fought and honorably bled.   And if there are amendments desired of such a nature as will not injure the constitution, and they can be ingrafted so as to give satisfaction to the doubting part of our fellow-citizens, the friends of the Federal Government will evince that spirit of deference and concession for which they have hitherto been distinguished.

․

I should be unwilling to see a door opened for a re-consideration of the whole structure of the Government-for a re-consideration of the principles and the substance of the powers given;  because I doubt, if such a door were opened, we should be very likely to stop at that point which would be safe to the Government itself.   But I do wish to see a door opened to consider, so far as to incorporate those provisions for the security of rights, against which I believe no serious objection has been made by any class of our constituents:  such as would be likely to meet with the concurrence of two-thirds of both Houses, and with the approbation of three-fourths of the State Legislatures.”

James Madison, House of Representatives, June 8, 1789 (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 651-53).   Madison proposed to insert, in Article I, Section 9, between its Clauses 3 and 4, the following clause (among others):

“The right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed;  a well armed and well regulated militia being the best security of a free country;  but no person religiously scrupulous of bearing arms shall be compelled to render military service in person.” 54

Id. at 654-55.  Article I, Section 9 contains nothing but restrictions upon the power of the federal government;  and its Clauses 2 and 3 relate only to individual rights (habeas corpus, bill of attainder and ex post facto).

Madison's proposal was eventually submitted to a House committee of eleven members, of which Madison was one.   That committee issued its report on July 28, 1789.   The clause that would become the Second Amendment then read:

“A well regulated militia, composed of the body of the people, being the best security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed, but no person religiously scrupulous shall be compelled to bear arms.”   House of Representatives, Proceedings on Amendments, July 28, 1789 (reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 680-82).

Thus, the philosophical declaration was moved to precede the substantive guarantee and “composed of the body of the people” was added just after “militia.”

The House began its consideration of what would become the Second Amendment on August 17, 1789.   Congressman Gerry moved to strike the religiously scrupulous exemption.   See House of Representatives, Debate, August 17, 1789 (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 695-99).   This motion was defeated by a vote of 24-22;  however, this language would later be dropped by the Senate.   Opponents of the individual rights model find hope in the initial appearance of the religiously scrupulous exemption and comments made by Congressman Gerry in attempting to excise it.   They argue that because “bear arms” has a military connotation in the religiously scrupulous clause, it necessarily carries the same meaning in the substantive guarantee.   This construction is supported, we are told, by Gerry's objection.   Gerry feared that the federal government would use the clause to destroy the militia by declaring a large number of people religiously scrupulous and, therefore, ineligible for militia service.   This would pave the way for oppression by the federal government's standing army.

“This declaration of rights, I take it, is intended to secure the people against the mal-administration of the Government;  if we could suppose that, in all cases, the rights of the people would be attended to, the occasion for guards of this kind would be removed.   Now, I am apprehensive, sir, that this clause would give an opportunity to the people in power to destroy the constitution itself.   They can declare who are those religiously scrupulous, and prevent them from bearing arms.

What, sir, is the use of a militia?   It is to prevent the establishment of a standing army, the bane of liberty.   Now, it must be evident, that, under this provision, together with their other powers, Congress could take such measures, with respect to a militia, as to make a standing army necessary.   Whenever governments mean to invade the rights and liberties of the people, they always attempt to destroy the militia, in order to raise an army upon their ruins.”

Id. at 695-96.   Gerry concluded by proclaiming, “[n]ow, if we give a discretionary power to exclude those from militia duty who have religious scruples, we may as well make no provision on this head.” 55  The inference urged is that the only purpose of the substantive guarantee was to secure the right of militia members to bear arms in a military context.   This interpretation of Gerry's statements appears somewhat strained.   We think that Gerry's comments manifested his opinion that:  1) it takes a well regulated militia, not the mere private possession of firearms, to obviate the need for a standing army;  and 2) an armed populace offers much less protection against a standing army than a well regulated militia.   If Gerry saw any conflict between the amendment's substantive guarantee and the destruction of the militia which was supposedly enabled by the religiously scrupulous clause, he did not say so.   In fact, Gerry's objection assumes that the amendment does not increase state power over the militia and that the preamble is but a philosophical declaration as to the necessity of a well regulated militia that does nothing to disturb Art. I, § 8, cl. 16, to which Gerry must be referring to as the source of the power of the federal government to destroy the militia.   Gerry's concern was directed to the creation of a standing army;  he does not express any worry that the feared purging of the rolls of the militia would enable the federal government to confiscate privately owned firearms, no doubt because the substantive guarantee applies to all the people, not just those that at a given time might comprise the militia.   Properly understood, Gerry's remarks are not inconsistent with the individual rights view of the Second Amendment.

Gerry was not the only member of the First Congress to express concern over the religiously scrupulous clause.   Three days later, on August 20, 1789, Congressman Scott complained of it as well.

“Mr. Scott objected to the clause in the sixth amendment, ‘No person religiously scrupulous shall be compelled to bear arms.’   He observed that if this becomes part of the constitution, such persons can neither be called upon for their services, nor can an equivalent be demanded;  it is also attended with still further difficulties, for a militia can never be depended upon.   This would lead to the violation of another article in the constitution, which secures to the people the right of keeping arms, and in this case recourse must be had to a standing army.”

House of Representatives, Debates, August 20, 1789 (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 703).   Congressman Boudinot opposed striking the clause, in part because such action would imply the federal government is going to “compel all its citizens to bear arms.”  Id. The House ended up adding “in person” to the end of the clause.  Id. We find no meaningful support, in Congressman Scott's statement, for either the states' rights or the sophisticated collective rights models.   Scott was not concerned, as Gerry was, that the federal government would use the religiously scrupulous clause as a ruse to exclude everyone from militia service.   Scott was worried that too many individual Americans would avail themselves of the clause's protection and that this would cause the militia to be so weakened that the federal government would have no choice but to maintain a standing army.   It is not exactly clear where Scott found violation of the people's right to keep arms.   The lack of a dependable militia both leads to Scott's hypothetical violation and necessitates recourse to a standing army.   It is possible that Scott found, in the amendment's philosophical declaration, some sort of right of the people to be free from a standing army.56  In any case, this cryptic passage does not plainly lend support to any of the Second Amendment models.   The only change that resulted from this discussion was the addition of the words “in person” at the end of the amendment and, as mentioned, the entire religiously scrupulous clause was later deleted by the Senate.

Congressman Burke repeatedly proposed that a clause be added to the amendment that would have required the consent of two-thirds of both houses of Congress to maintain a standing army in time of peace.   This proposal was defeated by a margin of almost two to one.   House of Representatives, Debates, August 17, 1789 (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 697-98).

On August 24, 1789, the House completed its work on the proposed amendments and forwarded them to the Senate.   At this time, the amendment read:

“A well regulated militia, composed of the body of the people, being the best security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed, but no one religiously scrupulous of bearing arms, shall be compelled to render military service in person.”

House of Representatives, Proceedings, August 24, 1789 (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 707).

The Senate, which had the House action before it from August 25 through September 9, 1789, made three changes:  1) the words “composed of the body of the people” were stricken;  2) the words “the best” were replaced by “necessary to the”;  and 3) the entire religiously scrupulous clause was stricken.   See The Complete Bill of Rights 173-76 (Neil H. Cogan, ed., 1997).   The Senate debates were conducted in secret, so there is no direct evidence of why these changes were made.   The Senate rejected a proposed amendment to add the words “for the common defense” just after “the right of the people to keep and bear arms”.  Id. Like the House, the Senate rejected a proposed amendment that would have required the consent of two-thirds of both houses of Congress to maintain a standing army in time of peace.  Id. The Senate on September 8, 1789 also refused to adopt an amendment that would have given the states power to arm and train their militias.57

The most significant Senate action is the rejection of the amendment that would have granted the power of the states to arm and train their own militias.   This is, of course, the precise effect the states' rights model attributes to the Second Amendment.   Proponents of that model argue that the rejection of that amendment simply indicates that this concern was already addressed, i.e. that the rejected amendment would have been mere surplusage.   This is highly implausible, particularly given the Second Amendment's placement within the Bill of Rights, its “the right of the people” language identical to that of the First and Fourth Amendments, and its lack of any reference to the power or rights of the states, all as contrasted to the direct and explicit state power language of the rejected amendment.   Moreover, this surplusage explanation also ignores that in the state conventions the right to keep and bear arms was always in the Bill of Rights section of proposed changes, while the state power to arm and train the militia was always in a separate section or at least a separate article.

Not surprisingly, the significance of the Senate's other alterations or rejections is open to question.   It could be argued that the striking of the words “composed of the body of the people” supports the sophisticated collective rights view that “militia” in the Second Amendment really means “select militia” and, therefore, pertains only to our modern national guard.   However, there is an abundance of historical evidence that indicates the Anti-Federalists abhorred the idea of a select militia every bit as much as a standing army.58  Clearly, if the Anti-Federalists believed the amendment offered any support for the formation of a select militia, or only recognized the right of members of the select militia to keep and bear arms while on active duty, they would have vociferously opposed it.   It must be remembered that the entire goal of submitting amendments was to pacify, not infuriate, the Anti-Federalists.   This suggests that the words “composed of the body of the people” were stricken as unnecessary surplusage.

The replacement of “best” with “necessary to the” strengthens the philosophical declaration's support for a militia.   As the rejection of standing army amendments in the House and Senate, as well as subsequent history, show, even this bolder statement did not serve to limit the power of the federal government to maintain a large standing army.   Probably the only bearing this change has on the task before this Court is that it makes the sophisticated collective rights model's contention that “militia” really means national guard or “select militia” even more questionable.   Anti-Federalists would never have accepted that a select militia was the best security (or anything but a threat to) “a free state,” much less necessary to the security of “a free state.”

Opponents of the individual rights model claim the Senate refused to add “for the common defense” after the amendment's substantive guarantee because those words were unnecessary surplusage.   Given the amendment's text and history, which, almost without exception, support the individual rights view, we believe it much more likely that the Senate rejected this language because it potentially posed the risk of an interpretation contracting the substantive guarantee.

Finally, perhaps the least relevant Senate change is the deletion of the religiously scrupulous clause.   This may well have been because the Senate felt that the clause was not sufficiently germane to an amendment whose core purpose was to state the affirmative rights of individuals as opposed to limitations on their potential obligations, or, relatedly, that the clause dealt with a relatively minor, collateral matter which was not worth the controversy and/or confusion it had generated or could generate.   Or, the Senate might simply have felt (as did Congressman Benson, see note 55 supra ) this would be better left to the wisdom and discretion of a future Congress.

The House approved the Senate version of the amendment, and Congress forwarded it to the states along with the rest of the Bill of Rights on September 26, 1789.59

b. Political Discourse

At the same time the above legislative history was being made, prominent Americans were writing in the newspapers and to each other.   These writings provide some insight into the nature (individual or collective) of the Second Amendment.

Anti-Federalist William Grayson expressed concern to fellow Anti-Federalist Patrick Henry that the only amendments that would be approved are those, like Madison's, that recognize individual rights:

“I am exceedingly sorry it is out of my power to hold out to you any flattering expectations on the score of amendments;  it appears to me that both houses are almost wholly composed of federalists;  those who call themselves Antis are so extremely lukewarm as scarcely to deserve the appellation:  Some gentlemen here from motives of policy have it in contemplation to effect amendments which shall effect personal liberty alone, leaving the great points of the judiciary, direct taxation & c, to stand as they are․   Last Monday a string of amendments were presented to the lower House;  these altogether respected personal liberty․”

Letter from William Grayson to Patrick Henry (June 12, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 668-69).

Federalist Fisher Ames was pleased that Madison's amendments primarily concerned noncontroversial individual rights.

“Mr. Madison has inserted, in his amendments, the increase of representatives, each State having two at least.   The rights of conscience, of bearing arms, of changing the government, are declared to be inherent in the people.   Freedom of the press, too.   There is a prodigious great dose of medicine.   But it will stimulate the stomach as little as hasty-pudding.   It is rather food than physic.   Am [sic] immense mass of sweet and other herbs and roots for a diet drink.”

Letter from Fisher Ames to George Richards Minot (June 12, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 668).

Federalist Tench Coxe, in a widely republished article, described what would become the Second Amendment this way:

“As civil rulers, not having their duty to the people, duly before them, may attempt to tyrannize, and as the military forces which shall be occasionally raised to defend our country, might pervert their power to the injury of their fellow-citizens, the people are confirmed by the next article in their right to keep and bear their private arms.”

A Pennsylvanian [Federalist Tench Coxe], REMARKS on the first part of the AMENDMENTS to the FEDERAL CONSTITUTION, moved on the 8th instant in the House of Representatives, Philadelphia Federal Gazette, June 18, 1789 (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 671).   That same day, Coxe wrote to Madison, discussing public reaction to Madison's proposed amendments and his own comments thereon which appeared in the Federal Gazette.   See Young, supra note 34, at 672.   Madison responded:

“Accept my acknowledgments for your favor of the 18th. instant.   The printed remarks inclosed in it are already I find in the Gazettes here.   It is much to be wished that the discon[ten]ted part of our fellow Citizens could be reconciled to the Government they have opposed, and by means as little as possible unacceptable to those who approve the Constitution in its present form.   The amendments proposed in the H. of Reps. had this twofold object in view;  besides the third one of avoiding all controvertible points which might endanger the assent of 2/323 of each branch of Congs and 3/434 of the State Legislatures.   How far the experiment may succeed in any of these respects, is wholly uncertain.   It will however be greatly favored by explanatory strictures of a healing tendency, and is therefore already indebted to the co-operation of your pen.”

Letter from James Madison to Tench Coxe (June 24, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 673-74).   Thus, consistent with his other statements, Madison seems to have endorsed Coxe's individual rights explanation of what would become the Second Amendment.   Note that Coxe made no mention of the philosophical declaration regarding a well regulated militia, but only referred to the provision's substantive guarantee and also that Coxe's reference to “private arms” is essentially inconsistent with both the states' rights and sophisticated collective rights models.

Opponents of the individual rights view dispute that Madison's letter was an endorsement of Coxe's explanation of the amendments, claiming that Madison disagreed with Coxe's explanation of the right of conscience.   In other words, they say that Madison was just being polite to Coxe for his attempt to explain the amendments and may not have agreed with all of the positions Coxe took.   Two problems with this view are that there is no evidence that anybody disagreed with Coxe's explanation of the Second Amendment and that Madison's notes for his speech supporting the amendments indicate that they “relate 1st to private rights”.   James Madison, Notes for speech in Congress supporting Amendments (June 8, 1789) (reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 645).

Joseph Jones, in a letter to James Madison, wrote:

“I thank you for the copy of the amendments proposed to the constitution which you lately inclosed to me-they are calculated to secure the personal rights of the people so far as declarations on paper can effect the purpose, leaving unimpaired the great Powers of the government-they are of such a nature as to be generally acceptable and of course more likely to obtain the assent of Congress that wod. any proposition tending to separate the powers or lessen them in either branch.”

Letter from Joseph Jones to James Madison (June 24, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 673).   Surely Mr. Jones would have distinguished an amendment that did not secure “personal rights.”

Anti-Federalist Samuel Nasson recognized that the amendment guaranteed the right of individuals to keep arms for any lawful purpose.

“I find that Amendments are once again on the Carpet.   I hope that such may take place as will be for the Best Interest of the whole[.]  A Bill of rights well secured that we the people may know how far we may Proceade in Every Department[,] then their [sic] will be no Dispute between the people and rulers [.]  [I]n that may be secured the right to keep arms for Common and Extraordinary Occations such as to secure ourselves against the wild Beast and also to amuse us by fowling and for our Defence against a Common Enemy [.]  [Y]ou know to learn the Use of arms is all that can Save us from a forighn foe that may attempt to subdue us[,] for if we keep up the Use of arms and become well acquainted with them we Shall allway be able to look them in the face that arise up against us[,] for it is impossible to Support a Standing armey large Enough to Guard our Lengthy Sea Coast[.]”

Letter from Samuel Nasson to George Thatcher (July 9, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 796-97) (emphasis added).

While Congressman Fisher Ames, a very strong Federalist, was pleased that Madison's amendments seemed unlikely to cause discord, he also expressed chagrin that the amendments were so focused on protecting the rights of the rabble that they did not belong in the Constitution.

“We have had the amendments on the tapis, and referred them to a committee of one from a State.   I hope much debate will be avoided by this mode, and that the amendments will be more rational, and less ad populum, than Madison's.   It is necessary to conciliate, and I would have amendments.   But they should not be trash, such as would dishonor the Constitution, without pleasing its enemies.   Should we propose them, North Carolina would accede.   It is doubtful, in case we should not.”

Letter from Fisher Ames to George Richards Minot (July 23, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 679).

Congressman William L. Smith viewed the Bill of Rights as recognizing individual rights, not the structure of government.

“The Committee on amendmts. have reported some, which are thought inoffensive to federalists & may do some good on the other side:  N. Car [olin]a. only wants some pretext to come into the Union, & we may afford that pretext by recommending a few amendments.

There appears to be a disposition in our house to agree to some, which will more effectually secure private rights, without affecting the structure of Govt.”

Letter from William L. Smith to Edward Rutledge (August 9, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 798) (emphasis added).

Pennsylvania Congressman Frederick A. Muhlenberg believed the Bill of Rights would placate “our Minority in Pennsylvania.”

“Altho' I am sorry that so much Time has been spent in this Business [the Bill of Rights], and would much rather have had it postponed to the next Session, yet as it now is done I hope it will be satisfactory to our State, and as it takes in the principal Amendments which our Minority had so much at Heart, I hope it may restore Harmony & unanimity amongst our fellow Citizens․”

Letter from Frederick A. Muhlenberg to Benjamin Rush (August 18, 1789) (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 799) (emphasis added).   Recall that the Pennsylvania Minority proposed what was indisputably an individual right to keep and bear arms.

Some Anti-Federalists were upset that Federalist James Madison was getting all the credit for proposing the Bill of Rights.   They believed much of this credit was due Samuel Adams.   Recall that Adams unsuccessfully proposed his own set of amendments to the Massachusetts Convention (and was much criticized for making the attempt).

“It may well be remembered that the following ‘amendments' to the new constitution for these United States, were introduced to the convention of this commonwealth by its present Lieutenant Governor, that venerable patriot, SAMUEL ADAMS.-It was his misfortune to have been misconceived, and the proposition was accordingly withdrawn-lest the business of the convention (the session of which was then drawing to a period) might be unexpectedly protracted.   His enemies triumphed exceedingly, and affected to represent his proposal as not only an artful attempt to prevent the constitution being adopted in this state, but as an unnecessary and improper alteration of a system, which did not admit of improvements.   To the honor of this gentlemen's penetration, and of his just way of thinking on this important subject, every one of his intended alterations, but one, have been already reported by the committee of the House of Representatives in Congress, and most probably will be adopted by the federal legislature.   In justice therefore to that long tried Republican, and his numerous friends, you gentlemen, are requested to re-publish his intended alterations, in the same paper that exhibits to the public, the amendments which the committee have adopted, in order that they may be compared together.”

Letter from Mssrs.   Adams & Nourse to the Editor of the Boston Independent Chronicle, Philadelphia Independent Gazetteer, August 20, 1789 (reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 701-702).   This is significant because Adams' amendments prohibited the Constitution from ever being construed to “prevent the people of the United States who are peaceable citizens, from keeping their own arms.”  Id. This language is not at all susceptible to the states' rights or sophisticated collective rights views.

Many Anti-Federalists supported the Bill of Rights, notwithstanding that it fell far short of delivering what they had fought for in the state conventions.   But at least one famous Anti-Federalist was enraged that the amendments did not alter the balance of power between the federal and state governments, particularly as to control over the militia.

“What would be your opinion of the man who, living where thieves were so numerous and vigilant as to improve every opportunity of plunder, should go to sleep at night in thoughtless security, with his doors wide open ․

Similar would be the conduct of the people of the United States, if they rest the security of their invaluable privileges upon the partial amendments making by Congress to the new constitution:  for although many of these amendments are very proper and necessary, yet whilst the constitution is suffered to retain powers that may not only defeat their salutary operation, but may, and incontrovertibly will be so decisively injurious as to sweep away every vestige of liberty;  it is an insult upon the understanding and discernment of the people to flatter them with the secure enjoyment of privileges, that are held by so precarious and transient a tenure.

Besides, some of these limited, insecure amendments, which, to a superficial observer, seem to contain useful provisions, when examined with attention, are found to be delusive and inoperative.   I will instance two or three of them.

․

Article 5th of the proposed amendments-‘A well regulated militia, composed of the body of the people, being the best security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed, & c.’ It is remarkable that this article only makes the observation, ‘that a well regulated militia, composed of the body of the people, is the best security of a free state;’ it does not ordain, or constitutionally provide for, the establishment of such a one.   The absolute command vested by other sections in Congress over the militia, are not in the least abridged by this amendment.   The militia may still be subjected to martial law and all its concomitant severities, and disgraceful punishments, may still be marched from state to state and made the unwilling instruments of crushing the last efforts of expiring liberty.”

Centinel, Revived, No. XXIX, Philadelphia Independent Gazetteer, September 9, 1789 (excerpt reprinted in Young, supra note 34, at 711-12).   Extreme Anti-Federalists like the Centinel would not be placated by mere recognition of a right about which the Federalists and Anti-Federalists were in agreement:  the right of the people to keep and bear arms.   In the Centinel's view, as long as the federal government had such extensive power over the militia, the people's liberties were not safe.   The Centinel simply rejected the Federalists repeated argument that there was no need to worry about a standing army as long as individuals were armed.   The Centinel also correctly observed that the amendment's preamble did nothing to alter the balance (or imbalance) of power between the state and federal governments as to the militia.

6. 19th Century Commentary

The great Constitutional scholars of the 19th Century recognized that the Second Amendment guarantees the right of individual Americans to possess and carry firearms.   We list their contributions in the order in which they were made.   First, St. George Tucker:

“8. A well regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.   Amendments to C.U.S. Art. 4.

This may be considered as the true palladium of liberty․   The right of self defence is the first law of nature:  in most governments it has been the study of rulers to confine this right within the narrowest limits possible.   Wherever standing armies are kept up, and the right of the people to keep and bear arms is, under any colour or pretext whatsoever, prohibited, liberty, if not already annihilated, is on the brink of destruction.   In England, the people have been disarmed, generally, under the specious pretext of preserving the game:  a never failing lure to bring over the landed aristocracy to support any measure, under that mask, though calculated for very different purposes.   True it is, their bill of rights seems at first view to counteract this policy:  but the right of bearing arms is confined to protestants, and the words suitable to their condition and degree, have been interpreted to authorise the prohibition of keeping a gun or other engine for the destruction of game, to any farmer, or inferior tradesman, or other person not qualified to kill game.   So that not one man in five hundred can keep a gun in his house without being subject to a penalty.”

1 St. George Tucker, Blackstone's Commentaries:  with Notes of Reference, to the Constitution and Laws, of the Federal Government of the United States;  and of the Commonwealth of Virginia, 300 (1803) (ellipsis in original).   Note how the fact that the Second Amendment applies to Americans generally is sharply contrasted with, and favorably compared to, the relevant part of the English Bill of Rights, which only pertained to Protestants and even for those only as “suitable to their condition and degree.”   The Amendment is said to facilitate the right of self defense.   Having individuals armed is particularly necessary when standing armies are kept up, as the combination of a standing army and a disarmed populace threatens the destruction of liberty.

Second, William Rawle:

“In the second article, it is declared, that a well regulated militia is necessary to the security of a free state;  a proposition from which few will dissent.   Although in actual war, the services of regular troops are confessedly more valuable;  yet, while peace prevails, and in the commencement of a war before a regular force can be raised, the militia form the palladium of the country.   They are ready to repel invasion, to suppress insurrection, and preserve the good order and peace of government.   That they should be well regulated, is judiciously added.   A disorderly militia is disgraceful to itself, and dangerous not to the enemy, but to its own country.   The duty of the state government is, to adopt such regulations as will tend to make good soldiers with the least interruptions of the ordinary and useful occupations of civil life.   In this all the Union has a strong and visible interest.

The corollary, from the first position, is, that the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.

The prohibition is general.   No clause in the Constitution could by any rule of construction be conceived to give to congress a power to disarm the people.   Such a flagitious attempt could only be made under some general pretence by a state legislature.   But if in any blind pursuit of inordinate power, either should attempt it, this amendment may be appealed to as a restraint on both.

In most of the countries of Europe, this right does not seem to be denied, although it is allowed more or less sparingly, according to circumstances.   In England, a country which boasts so much of its freedom, the right was secured to protestant subjects only, on the revolution of 1688;  and it is cautiously described to be that of bearing arms for their defence, ‘suitable to their conditions, and as allowed by law.’   An arbitrary code for the preservation of game in that country has long disgraced them.   A very small proportion of the people being permitted to kill it, though for their own subsistence;  a gun or other instrument, used for that purpose by an unqualified person, may be seized and forfeited.   Blackstone, in whom we regret that we cannot always trace the expanded principles of rational liberty, observes however, on this subject, that the prevention of popular insurrections and resistence to government by disarming the people, is oftener meant than avowed, by the makers of forest and game laws.

This right ought not, however, in any government, to be abused to the disturbance of the public peace.

An assemblage of persons with arms, for an unlawful purpose, is an indictable offence, and even the carrying of arms abroad by a single individual, attended with circumstances giving just reason to fear that he purposes to make an unlawful use of them, would be sufficient cause to require him to give surety of the peace.   If he refused he would be liable to imprisonment.”

William Rawle, A View of the Constitution of the United States of America 125-26 (Da Capo Press 1970) (2d ed. 1829) (footnotes omitted).   This explanation recognizes that the preamble is a declaration, a “proposition,” setting forth the desirability of reliance upon a militia during peacetime.   A well-regulated militia is the opposite of a disorderly, disgraceful militia.   Rawle also observes that the Amendment's substantive guarantee applies to all Americans-“[t]he prohibition is general.”   He likewise makes plain that it precludes legislation “to disarm the people.”   Rawle, like St. George Tucker, makes clear that the Second Amendment does not suffer from the infirmities of the corresponding part of the English Bill of Rights.

Next, Justice Joseph Story:

“§ 1000.  The next amendment is:  ‘A well regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.’

§ 1001.  The importance of this article will scarcely be doubted by any persons, who have duly reflected upon the subject.   The militia is the natural defence of a free country against sudden foreign invasions, domestic insurrections, and domestic usurpations of power by rulers.   It is against sound policy for a free people to keep up large military establishments and standing armies in time of peace, both from the enormous expenses, with which they are attended, and the facile means, which they afford to ambitious and unprincipled rulers, to subvert the government, or trample upon the rights of the people.   The right of the citizens to keep, and bear arms has justly been considered, as the palladium of the liberties of a republic;  since it offers a strong moral check against the usurpation and arbitrary power of rulers;  and will generally, even if these are successful in the first instance, enable the people to resist, and triumph over them.   And yet, though this truth would seem so clear, and the importance of a well regulated militia would seem so undeniable, it cannot be disguised, that among the American people there is a growing indifference to any system of militia discipline, and a strong disposition, from a sense of its burthens, to be rid of all regulations.   How it is practicable to keep the people duly armed without some organization, it is difficult to see.   There is certainly no small danger, that indifference may lead to disgust, and disgust to contempt;  and thus gradually undermine all the protection intended by this clause of our national bill of rights.”

Joseph Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States 708-709 (Carolina Academic Press 1987) (1833) (emphasis added).   Justice Story calls the right of “citizens” to keep and bear arms the “palladium” of our liberties.   He viewed the private ownership of firearms as reducing the need for the maintenance of large standing armies by promoting the vitality of the militia, and laments that militia participation is on the decline, fearing this will result in fewer Americans being armed.

And finally, Thomas Cooley:

“Section IV.-The Right to Keep and Bear Arms

The Constitution.-By the second amendment to the Constitution it is declared that, ‘a well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.’

The amendment, like most other provisions in the Constitutions, has a history.   It was adopted with some modification and enlargement from the English Bill of Rights of 1688, where it stood as a protest against arbitrary action of the overturned dynasty in disarming the people, and as a pledge of the new rulers that this tyrannical action should cease.   The right declared was meant to be a strong moral check against the usurpation and arbitrary power of rulers, and as a necessary and efficient means of regaining rights when temporarily overturned by usurpation.

The Right is General.-It might be supposed from the phraseology of this provision that the right to keep and bear arms was only guaranteed to the militia;  but this would be an interpretation not warranted by the intent.   The militia, as has been elsewhere explained, consists of those persons who, under the law, are liable to the performance of military duty, and are officered and enrolled for service when called upon.   But the law may make provision for the enrolment of all who are fit to perform military duty, or of a small number only, or it may wholly omit to make any provision at all;  and if the right were limited to those enrolled, the purpose of this guaranty might be defeated altogether by the action or neglect to act of the government it was meant to hold in check.   The meaning of the provision undoubtedly is, that the people, from whom the militia must be taken, shall have the right to keep and bear arms;  and they need no permission or regulation of law for the purpose.   But this enables the government to have a well-regulated militia;  for to bear arms implies something more than the mere keeping;  it implies the learning to handle and use them in a way that makes those who keep them ready for their efficient use;  in other words, it implies the right to meet for voluntary discipline in arms, observing in doing so the laws of public order.

Standing Army.-A further purpose of this amendment is, to preclude any necessity or reasonable excuse for keeping up a standing army.   A standing army is condemned by the traditions and sentiments of the people, as being as dangerous to the liberties of the people as the general preparation of the people for the defence of their institutions with arms is preservative of them.

What Arms may be kept.-The arms intended by the Constitution are such as are suitable for the general defence of the community against invasion or oppression, and the secret carrying of those suited merely to deadly individual encounters may be prohibited.”

Thomas M. Cooley, The General Principles of Constitutional Law in the United States of America 270-72 (Rothman & Co.1981) (original ed. 1880) (footnotes omitted) (emphasis added).

7. Analysis

The history we have recounted largely speaks for itself.   We briefly summarize.   The Anti-Federalists desired a bill of rights, express provision for increased state power over the militia, and a meaningful express limitation of the power of the federal government to maintain a standing army.   These issues were somewhat interrelated.   The prospect of federal power to render the militia useless and to maintain a large standing army combined with the absence of any specific guarantees of individual liberty frightened Anti-Federalists.   But the Anti-Federalist complaint that resonated best with the people at large was the lack of a bill of rights.

In mid-1788 the Constitution was ratified unchanged and in the spring of 1789 the Federalists gained control of both houses of the First Congress.   Hard-core Anti-Federalists persisted in all three demands, but more moderate Anti-Federalists and the people at large were primarily focused on securing a bill of rights.   Most Federalists were not really averse to a bill of rights, but, like James Madison himself, had been forced to oppose any modifications to the Constitution since it could only be ratified unchanged.   The Federalists wanted to please the Anti-Federalists as much as possible without fundamentally altering the balance of federal-state power.   James Madison plainly stated this goal when he submitted his proposed amendments to the House.

Given the political dynamic of the day, the wording of the Second Amendment is exactly what would have been expected.   The Federalists had no qualms with recognizing the individual right of all Americans to keep and bear arms.   In fact, as we have documented, one of the Federalists' favorite 1787-88 talking points on the standing army and federal power over the militia issues was to remind the Anti-Federalists that the American people were armed and hence could not possibly be placed in danger by a federal standing army or federal control over the militia.   The Second Amendment's preamble represents a successful attempt, by the Federalists, to further pacify moderate Anti-Federalists without actually conceding any additional ground, i.e. without limiting the power of the federal government to maintain a standing army or increasing the power of the states over the militia.

 This is not to say that the Second Amendment's preamble was not appropriate or is in any way marginal or lacking in true significance.   Quite the contrary.   Absent a citizenry generally keeping and bearing their own private arms, a militia as it was then thought of could not meaningfully exist.   As pointed out by Thomas Cooley, the right of individual Americans to keep, carry, and acquaint themselves with firearms does indeed promote a well-regulated militia by fostering the development of a pool of firearms-familiar citizens that could be called upon to serve in the militia.   While standing armies are not mentioned in the preamble, history shows that the reason a well-regulated militia was declared necessary to the security of a free state was because such a militia would greatly reduce the need for a standing army.   Thus, the Second Amendment dealt directly with one of the Anti-Federalists' concerns and indirectly addressed the other two.   While the hard core Anti-Federalists recognized that the Second Amendment did not assure a well-regulated militia or curtail the federal government's power to maintain a large standing army, they did not control either branch of Congress (or the presidency) and had to be content with the right of individuals to keep and bear arms.

Finally, the many newspaper articles and personal letters cited indicate that, at the time, Americans viewed the Second Amendment as applying to individuals.   This is confirmed by the First Congress's rejection of amendments that would have directly and explicitly addressed the Anti-Federalists' standing army and power over the militia concerns.

We have found no historical evidence that the Second Amendment was intended to convey militia power to the states, limit the federal government's power to maintain a standing army, or applies only to members of a select militia while on active duty.60  All of the evidence indicates that the Second Amendment, like other parts of the Bill of Rights, applies to and protects individual Americans.

We find that the history of the Second Amendment reinforces the plain meaning of its text, namely that it protects individual Americans in their right to keep and bear arms whether or not they are a member of a select militia or performing active military service or training.

E. Second Amendment protects individual rights

We reject the collective rights and sophisticated collective rights models for interpreting the Second Amendment.   We hold, consistent with Miller, that it protects the right of individuals, including those not then actually a member of any militia or engaged in active military service or training, to privately possess and bear their own firearms, such as the pistol involved here, that are suitable as personal, individual weapons and are not of the general kind or type excluded by Miller.   However, because of our holding that section 922(g)(8), as applied to Emerson, does not infringe his individual rights under the Second Amendment we will not now further elaborate as to the exact scope of all Second Amendment rights.

VI. Application to Emerson

The district court held that section 922(g)(8) was unconstitutionally overbroad because it allows second amendment rights to be infringed absent any express judicial finding that the person subject to the order posed a future danger.   In other words, the section 922(g)(8) threshold for deprivation of the fundamental right to keep and bear arms is too low.61

 Although, as we have held, the Second Amendment does protect individual rights, that does not mean that those rights may never be made subject to any limited, narrowly tailored specific exceptions or restrictions for particular cases that are reasonable and not inconsistent with the right of Americans generally to individually keep and bear their private arms as historically understood in this country.   Indeed, Emerson does not contend, and the district court did not hold, otherwise.   As we have previously noted, it is clear that felons, infants and those of unsound mind may be prohibited from possessing firearms.   See note 21, supra.62  Emerson's argument that his Second Amendment rights have been violated is grounded on the propositions that the September 14, 1998 order contains no express finding that he represents a credible threat to the physical safety of his wife (or child), that the evidence before the court issuing the order would not sustain such a finding and that the provisions of the order bringing it within clause (C)(ii) of section 922(g)(8) were no more than uncontested boiler-plate.   In essence, Emerson, and the district court, concede that had the order contained an express finding, on the basis of adequate evidence, that Emerson actually posed a credible threat to the physical safety of his wife, and had that been a genuinely contested matter at the hearing, with the parties and the court aware of section 922(g)(8), then Emerson could, consistent with the Second Amendment, be precluded from possessing a firearm while he remained subject to the order.63

 Though we are concerned with the lack of express findings in the order, and with the absence of any requirement for same in clause (C)(ii) of section 922(g)(8), we are ultimately unpersuaded by Emerson's argument.  Section 922(g)(8)(A) requires an actual hearing with prior notice and an opportunity to participate, and section 922(g)(8)(C)(ii) requires that the order “explicitly” prohibit the use (actual, threatened or attempted) of physical force that would reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury.   Congress legislated against the background of the almost universal rule of American law that for a temporary injunction to issue:

“There must be a likelihood that irreparable harm will occur.   Speculative injury is not sufficient;  there must be more than an unfounded fear on the part of the applicant.   Thus, a preliminary injunction will not be issued simply to prevent the possibility of some remote future injury.   A presently existing actual threat must be shown.   However, the injury need not have been inflicted when application is made or be certain to occur;  a strong threat of irreparable injury before trial is an adequate basis.”   9 Wright, Miller & Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure:  Civil 2d § 2948.1 at 153-56 (footnotes omitted;  emphasis added).64

 We conclude that Congress in enacting section 922(g)(8)(C)(ii) proceeded on the assumption that the laws of the several states were such that court orders, issued after notice and hearing, should not embrace the prohibitions of paragraph (C)(ii) unless such either were not contested or evidence credited by the court reflected a real threat or danger of injury to the protected party by the party enjoined.   We do not imply that Congress intended to authorize collateral review of the particular state court predicate order in section 922(g)(8)(C)(ii) prosecutions to determine whether in that individual case the state court adequately followed state law in issuing the order.   What we do suggest is that Congress did not have in mind orders issued under a legal system whose rules did not approximate the above stated general minimum standards for the issuance of contested injunctive orders after notice and hearing.

 In any event, it is clear to us that Texas law meets these general minimum standards.   See, e.g., Texas Indus. Gas v. Phoenix Metallurgical, 828 S.W.2d 529, 532 (Tex.App.-Hou. [1st Dist.] 1992):

“A trial court may not issue a temporary injunction except to prevent a threatened injury․   The commission of the act to be enjoined must be more than just speculative, and the injury that flows from the act must be more than just conjectural․   The trial court will abuse its discretion if it grants a temporary injunction when the evidence does not clearly establish that the applicant is threatened with an actual, irreparable injury.”

See also State v. Morales, 869 S.W.2d 941, 946 (Tex.1994) (“An injunction will not issue unless it is shown that the respondent will engage in the activity enjoined”);  Armendariz v. Mora, 526 S.W.2d 542, 543 (Tex.1975) (reversing temporary injunction where no “evidence establishing probable injury”);  Dallas General Drivers v. Wamix, 156 Tex. 408, 295 S.W.2d 873, 879 (1956);  In re Marriage of Spiegel, 6 S.W.3d 643, 645 (Tex.App.-Amarillo 1999).

 We conclude that essentially the same standards are applicable to orders, such as the September 14, 1998 order here, issued under Texas Family Code § 6.502, which provides that in a pending divorce proceeding “after notice and hearing, the court may render an appropriate order, including the granting of a temporary injunction for ․ protection of the parties as deemed necessary ․ including an order directed to one or both parties ․ prohibiting an act described by Section 6.501(a).”   Section 6.501(a), dealing with temporary restraining orders in divorce proceedings, authorizes orders “prohibiting one or both parties from:  ․ (2) threatening the other, by telephone or in writing, to take unlawful action against any person, intending by this action to annoy or alarm the other;  ․ (4) intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly causing bodily injury to the other or to a child of either party;  (5) threatening the other or a child of either party with imminent bodily injury;  ․” The predecessor statute to section 6.502 has been construed as requiring a showing of “reasonable necessity” for the temporary injunction, including a showing of “a probable injury.”   See Florence v. Florence, 388 S.W.2d 220, 223-24 (Tex.Civ.App.-Tyler 1965).

We are also somewhat troubled by the unavailability of review by direct appeal of interlocutory orders under section 6.502.   See Texas Family Code § 6.507. However, appellate court review is available by mandamus under an “abuse of discretion” standard.  Wallace v. Briggs, 162 Tex. 485, 348 S.W.2d 523, 527 (1961).   There are a number of reported appellate court decisions granting such relief from orders under the predecessors to section 6.502.   See, e.g., Wallace;  Little v. Daggett, 858 S.W.2d 368 (Tex.1993);  Dancy v. Daggett, 815 S.W.2d 548 (Tex.1991);  Post v. Garza, 867 S.W.2d 88 (Tex.App.-Corpus Christi 1993).   We also note that it has more generally been said that a “trial court will abuse its discretion if it grants a temporary injunction when the evidence does not clearly establish that the applicant is threatened with an actual, irreparable injury,” Texas Indus. Gas, supra, 828 S.W.2d at 532 (emphasis added), and that, with reference to ruling on a temporary injunction application, “[a]n abuse of discretion arises when the trial court acts without reference to applicable guiding principles ․;   acts arbitrarily;  ․ or misinterprets or misapplies the law․”  In Re Marriage of Spiegel, 6 S.W.3d 643, 645 (Tex.App.-Amarillo 1999) (emphasis added;  citations omitted).   We also note in this connection that orders such as that here of September 14, 1998, expire on the final decree of divorce (and are subject to modification by the trial court prior thereto;  if incorporated into the final divorce decree they are then subject to review on direct appeal).

In light of the foregoing, we cannot say that section 922(g)(8)(C)(ii)'s lack of a requirement for an explicit, express credible threat finding by the court issuing the order-of itself or together with appellate court review being available (prior to final judgment) only by mandamus-renders that section infirm under the Second Amendment.   The presence of such an explicit finding would likely furnish some additional indication that the issuing court properly considered the matter, but such findings can be as much “boilerplate” or in error as any other part of such an order.

 As to Emerson's contention that the evidence before the court issuing the September 14, 1998 order was insufficient to show that he posed a credible threat to the physical safety of his wife or child, we conclude that under these circumstances Lewis v. United States, 445 U.S. 55, 100 S.Ct. 915, 63 L.Ed.2d 198 (1980) and our decision in United States v. Chambers, 922 F.2d 228 (5th Cir.1991), each discussed in part I hereof above, necessarily preclude the court in the section 922(g)(8) prosecution from that sort of collateral review of the validity of the particular section 922(g)(8) predicate order, at least where, as we hold to be the case here, the order is not so “transparently invalid” as to have “only a frivolous pretense to validity.”   See Chambers at 239.

With respect to temporary injunctions and similar orders to be issued only after notice and hearing, the Texas rule of law, as we have noted, is that such an order, at least to the extent contested and explicitly prohibiting acts such as are covered by section 922(g)(8)(C)(ii), may not properly issue unless the issuing court concludes, based on adequate evidence at the hearing, that the party restrained would otherwise pose a realistic threat of imminent physical injury to the protected party, and this is so regardless of whether or not Texas law requires the issuing court to make on the record express or explicit findings to that effect.   Moreover, such orders are subject to being set aside by the issuing court as well as being subject to some review by an appellate court.   In such a case, we conclude that the nexus between firearm possession by the party so enjoined and the threat of lawless violence, is sufficient, though likely barely so, to support the deprivation, while the order remains in effect, of the enjoined party's Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms, and that this is so even though the party enjoined may not collaterally attack the particular predicate order in the section 922(g)(8) prosecution, at least so long as the order, as here, is not so transparently invalid as to have only a frivolous pretense to validity.65

VII. Conclusion

Error has not been demonstrated in the district court's refusal to dismiss the indictment on commerce clause grounds.

For the reasons stated, we reverse the district court's order granting the motion to dismiss the indictment under the Fifth Amendment.

We agree with the district court that the Second Amendment protects the right of individuals to privately keep and bear their own firearms that are suitable as individual, personal weapons and are not of the general kind or type excluded by Miller, regardless of whether the particular individual is then actually a member of a militia.66  However, for the reasons stated, we also conclude that the predicate order in question here is sufficient, albeit likely minimally so, to support the deprivation, while it remains in effect, of the defendant's Second Amendment rights.   Accordingly, we reverse the district court's dismissal of the indictment on Second Amendment grounds.

We remand the cause for further proceedings not inconsistent herewith.

REVERSED and REMANDED